2012年6月英语四级考试真题答案解析 Part Ⅰ Writing (30minutes) 参考作文: 　　On Excessive Packaging 　　Nowadays the phenomena of excessive packaging of goods are prevailing in our society: clothes swathed in tissue paper, placed in cardboard box and finally wrapped in well-designed plastic bags, imported bottles of grape wine packed in wooden boxes, fruits put in hand-woven baskets, to name but a few。 　　There are several causes of excessive packaging. The first reason is that a large number of companies believe that they can attract customers’ attention and stimulate their purchasing desire by over-packaging their goods, thus gaining more profits. On the other hand, quite a number of consumers mistakenly hold that the more delicate the package is, the better the quality will be, thus encouraging excessive packaging。 　　In my point of view, excessive packaging has disastrous consequences, including the loss of precious resources, excessive consumption of water and energy, and unnecessary extraction of scarce land for landfill。 　　To solve the problem, it’s necessary to take the following measures. First, laws and regulations must be made to restrict excessive packaging of companies. In addition, we need to raise consumer’s awareness that excessive packaging doesn’t equal to high quality and advocate packaging recycling.  　　【解析】 　　本次作文的话题是“过度包装”，话题不断新，考生应该都比较熟悉。写好本篇作文的关键在于紧跟题目所列提纲：现象——原因——看法和建议，确定相应的写作结构。重点分析产生此现象的原因有哪些，把最重要的两三点罗列下来。最后，根据分析出的原因提供相应的建议。 　　范文首段开门见山，首先一句话总结如今社会上过度包装现象盛行，而后举出一些实例补充说明。 　　第二段重点从公司和消费者两方面论述产生过度包装的原因。公司方面是为了吸引顾客，刺激消费，赢取更多的利润；消费者方面是认为包装越精美，质量越好这种错误的消费意识。 　　接下来作者表明自己的看法，认为过度包装会导致很多问题：稀缺资源的流失；水，能源的过度消耗以及产生不必要的垃圾场等。 　　最后一段作者针对原因提出了一些解决方案。第一方面，建立法律规章制度来约束企业的过度包装行为。第二方面，必须让消费者认识到过度包装不等同于高质量，并提倡包装物的回收利用。 本文条理清晰，论述充分，语言使用规范得当，如：to name but a few，the first reason is that…，on the other hand，in my point of view，to solve the problem，first，in addition等。 Part Ⅱ Reading Comprehension(Skimming and Scanning)(15minutes) 本文主要讲述了社交网络给警察带来的不良影响，以及警察局为应对这一问题所采取的措施。第1-5通过举例引出本文讨论的话题：社交网络对警察来说是一把双刃剑。第1-2段主要讲特雷·伊考诺米迪警员因“脸谱”上的个人资料被曝光被调到内勤.第3-5段主要说明互联网虽然是执法机构可以使用的有价值的工具，但也会给警员带来不利影响。影响：网上不慎重的言行给自己带来麻烦；网上发布的帖子可能会危及警员的安全；辩护律师在社交网站搜索有助于反驳警员证词的相关证据。第6 -11段讲警察署制定相关规章制度，对警员的网上言行进行规范化监管。第12 -17段主要说明法院、学者以及警员对限制警员在社交网络发表言论这一做法的态度。法院：支持限制警员网上言论的做法。学者戴维．L．哈德森：规定所涉及的范围过于宽泛，有争议性。警员协会会长乔伊·斯伽拉：警局无权规定警员下班后的言行；这一做法把展示好行为与坏行为的能力都剥夺了。第18段-29段主要举例说明警察局对这一问题的看法以及采取的措施。阿尔伯克基市警察局：需要迅速处理这一问题；专门聘请一名监察警官。印第安纳州警署：教育新入职警员在社交网络要谨言慎行。密歇根州绍斯菲尔德市警察局：严格执行有关社交媒体的法规；检查求职者在社交网络上的言论。 答案：　   1. D) providing good education for baby boomers。 　　2. B) Students’ performance declined。 　　3. D) They are mostly small in size。 　　4. A) Some large schools have split up into smaller ones。 　　5. D) their college-level test participation。 　　6. D) Their school performance was getting worse。 　　7. C) maintain closer relationships with their teachers。 　　8. Simplicity 　　9. different measures 　　10. tough subjects Part Ⅲ Listening Comprehension (35minutes) Section A 听力原文及答案解析: 　　11. 　　M: As you can see from the drawings, the kitchen has one door into the dining room, another into the family room and a third to the outside。 　　W: The door into the family room isn’t big enough. Could it be made wider? 　　Q: What are the speakers doing? 　　【答案】C) Discussing a housing plan。 　　【解析】此题为简单的推理题。从drawing，kitchen等关键词可知，两人正在看房间的图纸，并讨论希望family room能够再大点。 　　12. 　　M: I’m thinking about where to go for a bite tonight. Any suggestions, Barbara? 　　W: Well, how about the French restaurant near the KFC? Frankly, I’ve had enough of our canteen food。 　　Q: What do we learn about the woman? 　　【答案】A) She is tired of the food in the canteen。 　　【解析】此题为推理题。从对话中可知，男子问女子对于晚上到哪里吃饭有没有任何建议。女子回答去KFC旁边的法国餐厅，因为她已经受够了食堂的食物。 　　13. 　　W: Hey, if you can’t enjoy the music at a sensible volume, why not use earphones? I’m preparing for the speech contest。 　　M: Oh, sorry. I didn’t realize I’ve being bothering you all this time。 　　Q: What is the man probably doing? 　　【答案】A) Listening to some loud music。 　　【解析】此题为较为简单的推理题。从volume，earphone，bother等关键词可知该男子听音乐时把音量调的很高，从而影响到了女子准备演讲比赛。 　　14. 　　M: Finally, I’ve got the chance to put on my new suit tonight. I hope to make a good impression on your family。 　　W: Come on! It’s only a family reunion. So jeans and T-shirts are just fine.  　　Q: What does the woman mean? 　　【答案】B) The man can dress casually for the occasion。 　　【解析】此题为推理题。男子想穿新套装给女方家庭留下好印象，但是女子说这只是个家庭聚会，穿牛仔裤和T恤就行，即穿着随意即可。 　　15. 　　M: Would you like to see those pants in brown and navy blue? These two colors are coming in this season。 　　W: Oh, actually grey is my favourite color, but I prefer something made from cotton, 100% cotton I mean。 　　Q: What is the woman looking for? 　　【答案】A) Grey pants made from pure cotton。 　　【解析】此题为细节题。从关键词pants，grey，100% cotton可知，女子想要的是灰色纯棉的短裤。 　　16. 　　W: From here, the mountains look as if you could just reach out and touch them。 　　M: That’s why I chose this lodge. It has one of the best views in Switzerland。 　　Q: What is the man’s chief consideration in choosing the lodge? 　　【答案】B) Its location。 　　【解析】此题为细节题。男子说他选择这个旅馆的原因是它有着瑞士最好的视野，所以他最在乎的是位置。 　　17. 　　M: What do I have to do to apply for a passport? 　　W: You need proof of citizenship, either an old passport or a birth certificate and three photographs. Then you must complete this form and pay a fee。 　　Q: What is the man most probably going to do? 　　【答案】A) Travel overseas。 　　【解析】此题为推理题。男子询问女子如何申请护照，女子回答时说的出生证，照片等是申请护照的所需用品。 　　18. 　　M: Miss, can I interest you in a pork special with serving tonight? It’s only 799, half the usual price and it’s very tasty。 　　W: Oh really? I will try it。 　　Q: What does the man say about the dish? 　　【答案】D) It is a good bargain。 　　【解析】此题为细节题。男子在给女子推荐时说该道菜今晚的价格是平时的一般，且很好吃，可见十分划算。　 　　Conversation 1 　　W：Good evening, and welcome to this week’s business world. The program for and about business people. Tonight we have Mr. Steven Kayne, who has just taken over and established bicycle shop. Tell us, Mr. Kayne, what made you want to run your own store? 　　M: Well, I always loved racing bikes and fixing them. When I was working full-time as a salesman for a big company, I seldom had time to enjoy my hobby. I knew then that as soon as I had enough money to get my own business going, I’ll do it. I had m  y heart set on it and I didn’t let anything stand in my way. When I went down to the bank and got a business loan, I knew I’d love being my own boss. Now my time is my own. I open the store when I want and leave when I want。 　　W:You mean you don’t keep regular hours? 　　M: Well, the sign on my store says the hours are ten to six, but if business is slower than usual, I can just lock up and take off early。 　　W: Had you hired any employees to work with you yet? 　　M: Yeah, a couple of friends of mine who love biking as much as I do. They help me out a few days a week. It’s great because we play cards or just sit around and talk when there are no customers.  　　W: Thank you, Mr. Kayne. We wish you success in your new business。 　　Q19.what is the woman doing? 　　Q20.What did Mr. Kayne do before he took over the bicycle shop? 　　Q21.Why did the man take over a bicycle shop? 　　Q22. What do we learn about the people working in the shop? 　　答案： 　　19. D) Conducting a market survey. 　　20. A) He repaired bicycles. 　　21. B) He found it more profitable 　　22. A) They work five days a week. 　　Conversation 2 　　W: Well, the main activities in the region were historically steel and paper processing, I think。 　　M: Yes, but I’m not quite sure about the status of those industries now. Could you tell us something about that?  　　W: Yes, of course. In fact, they are less significant, but steel-related manufacturing still accounts for 44% of industrial activity. So it’s still very important. In fact, 80% of Spain’s machine tools are from the Basque country. As for paper processing, there’s still a little. But it’s no longer what it once was in the region. So, is that clear? 　　M: Yes, thanks。 　　W: Now, to get back to what I was saying, there’s a lot of unemployment as well as geographical problems in the region。 　　M: Sorry, Victoria. What do you mean by geographical problems? 　　W: Well, what I mean is the area is very hilly, mountainous in parts. So there used to be transport p roblems, now though there are new train links and better roads, but it may be that some smaller towns inland remain not very well connected, is that OK? Does that make sense? When we talk about specific location suggestions for the factory, we’ll see this in more detail, so we’ll come back to this question, OK?  　　M: OK, right。 　　W: So I was about to say something about the work force in the region and the level of training and education. In general, it’s very good and improving。 　　Question 23-25 are based on the conversation you have just heard。 　　23. What does the woman say about the steel-related manufacturing in the region? 　　24. What problems hinder the region’s development? 　　25. What will the speakers discuss later? 　　答案： 　　23. B) It remains a major part of industrial activity. 　　24. C) Lack of resources. 　　25. C) Possible locations for a new factory 　　Section B 　　Passage one I first met Joe Ganz when we were both nine years old, which is probably the only reason he’s one of my best friends. If I had first met Joe as a freshman in high school we wouldn’t even have had the chance to get to know each other. Joe is a day student, but I am a boarding student. We haven’t been in same classes, sports or extra-curricular activities. Nonetheless, I spend nearly every weekend at his house and we talk on the phone every night. This is not to say that we would not have been compatible if we had first met in our freshman year. Rather, we would not have been likely to spend enough time getting to know each other due to the lack of immediately visible mutual interests. In fact, to be honest, I struggle even now to think of things we have in common. But maybe that’s what makes us enjoy each other’s company so much. When I look at my friendship with Joe, I wonder how many people I’ve known whom I never disliked, but simply didn’t take the time to get to know. Thanks to Joe, I have realized how little basis there is for the social divisions that exist in every community. Since this realization, I have begun to make an even more determined effort to find friends in unexpected people and places。 Q: 26: Why does the speaker say Joe Ganz became one of his best friends? 27: Where does the speaker spend most of his weekends? 28: What has the speaker learned from his friendship with Joe? 答案 　　Q26: B. They had known each other since childhood 　　Q27: B. At Joe’s house 　　Q28: D. Social divisions will break down if people get to know each other。 Passage two It was a bad night for Lewis. His research in the neighboring town has taken longer than he expected. It was late and he was very tired when he drove home. He turned into his building’s parking lot, but all the spaces were full. He drove back out onto the street, looking for a parking space. The first block was full. The next block was almost empty. Lewis didn’t see a “no parking” sign, but he has expected that his parking were allowed there. Most the spaces would be filled. Then he saw a small parking lot with two free spaces. He was so glad to see them that he didn’t even think to read the sign by the entrance. He drove in, parked and hurried home to go to bed. The next morning he went back to the lot to get his car. It was gone. He ran home and telephoned the city police to say that his car had been stolen. It took the police only a minute to tell him what had happened: his car had been on a private lot. It had been taken away by the police. Lewis had to take a taxi to visit the city garage far from the city center. He had to pay a fee of 40 dollars to get his car back. In addition, he got a parking ticket, his first one ever in Greenville。 Q: 29: Where did Lewis intend to park his car when he came back from work one night? 30: What did Lewis think had happened to his car the next morning? 31: Where did Lewis finally get his car back? 答案 　　Q29: A. In his building’s parking lot 　　Q30: A. It had been stolen by someone 　　Q31: B. In the city garage Passage three Well, to pick up where we left off last time, I believe we agreed that creativity is a mysterious idea. It was those things we all recognize when we see it, but we don’t really understand what it is. We seem to feel that some people are naturally creative, but we don’t know how they got that way. Is creativity a natural gift like good looks, or is it something that can be acquired like knowledge? Perhaps if we analyze the creative process carefully, we might get some insight into what it is and how it might work in our lives. The creative process has always been accepted as the source of all important work in the arts, but we should not think the creativity plays a role only in the arts. Every major scientific discovery began with someone imagining the world to look differently from the way others saw it. And this is what creativity is all about -- imagining the world in a new way. And despite what you may believe about the limits of your own creative imaginations, we all have the potential to imagine the world in an absolutely new way. In fact, you are born with it. It is your birth right as a human being. And what’s more, you use it every day, almost every moment of your life. Your creative imagination is what you use to make sense of your experiences. You’re your creative mind that gets meaning from chaos of experiences and brings order to your world。 32. What did the speaker most probably discuss last time? 33. What is the widely accepted idea about the creative process? 34. What leads to major scientific discoveries according to the speaker? 35. What does the speaker imply about the creative process? 答案 　　Q32: B. The mysteriousness of creativity 　　Q33: D. It is the source of all artistic work 　　Q34: A. Creative imagination 　　Q35: C. It is part of everyday life Section C 复合式听写 Students have been complaining more and more about stolen property. Radios, cell phones , bicycles, pocket (36) calculators, and books have all been reported stolen. Are there enough campus police to do the job? There are 20 officers in the campus security division. Their job is to (37) handle crime, accidents, lost and found (38) items, and traffic problems on campus. More than half of their time is spent directing traffic and writing parking tickets. (39) Responding promptly to accidents and other (40) emergencies is important, but it is their smallest job. Dealing with crime takes up the rest of their time. Very (41) rarely did any violent crimes actually (42) occur. In the last five years there have been no (43) murders, seven robberies, and about sixty other violent attacks, most of these involving fights at parties. On the other hand, (44) there have been hundreds of thefts and cases of deliberate damaging of public property, which usually involves breaking windows or lights, or writing on walls. The thefts are not the carefully planned burglaries that you see in movies. (45)Things get stolen when it is just easy to steal them because they are left lying around unwatched. Do we really need more police? Hiring more campus police would cost money, possibly making our tuition go up again.(46) A better way to solve this problem might be for all of us to be more careful with our things. 　　【答案】 　　36. calculators 　　37. handle 　　38. items 　　39. Responding 　　40. emergencies 　　41. rarely 　　42. occur 43. murders  　　44. there have been hundreds of thefts and cases of deliberate damaging of public property 　　45. Things get stolen when it is easy to steal them because they are left lying around unwatched 46. A better way to solve this problem might be for all of us to be more careful with our things Part Ⅳ Reading Comprehension(Reading in depth)(25minntes) Section A  　　【解析】 　　这篇文章谈论的是校园盗窃。从校园相关话题的角度而言，复合式听写的内容非常贴近生活，是考生所熟悉的。具体听写内容，单词仍然以一句话的主干内容为主，即名词和动词；而句子听写的长度和停顿间隔仍与往年一致，即18词左右，且每句间隔1-2句。所以，复合式听写难度与往年持平。但是考生们应考和平时听写时，都需要特别注意细节，如名词复数的变化，emergency的复数emergencies； 难词的拼写calculator(计算器)、theft(盗窃)。 　　47. K. domestic 　　48. M. communities 　　49. A. survive 　　50. H. gather 　　51. C. serves 　　52. B. surroundings 　　53. F. recession 　　54. E. reported 　　55. G. households 　　56. J. financially 　　【解析】 　　这篇文章选自Time杂志，讲述的是美国采取了一系列的食品援助行动为低收入者提供食物，经济萧条让越来越多的人陷入温饱危机，其中甚至包括有工作的人。 文章思路比较清晰，理解起来并不难。选项中也没有易混淆的干扰项，考生只要把握文章的主线，注意通过词性排除选项，很容易得出答案。 Section B Passage One 　　答案： 　　57. C. bring about a drop in the divorce rate 　　58. D. living separately would be too costly 　　59. D. Falling housing prices。 　　60. D. It will irreparably damage their relationship。 61. A. The economic recovery will see a higher divorce rate。 【点评】：这篇文章来源于2009年5月的《纽约时报》(原文地址：http://www.nytimes.com/2009/05/29/opinion/29cherlin.html )，题目为Married With Bankruptcy。这里有删减。文章分析了经济危机给夫妇带来的影响，指出经济危机不会提高离婚率并分析了几个原因，如夫妇无法承担离婚的成本，房价下降等等。文章最后三段指出虽然不会离婚，但夫妻的这种关系也不会维持太久，经济危机的考验要到经济复苏时期才能显现出来。 Passage Two 答案： 　　62. C) It profits by selling its user’s personal data。 　　63. B) They don’t know their personal data enriches Facebook。 　　64. A) To render better service to its users。 　　65. C) Formulating regulations for social-networking sites。 　　66. C) He doesn’t want his personal data abused。 　　点评： 文章的主题围绕当下很受欢迎的社交网站Facebook，揭露其将用户资料出售给广告商。而大多数用户并未意识到这一点，因为他们并没有意识到个人资料的重要性。作者的态度和立场非常鲜明，并表示考虑注销自己的账户。 Part V Cloze (15 minutes) 答案： 　　67. D avoid 　　68. D however 　　69. C failing 　　70. C stages 　　71. A on 　　72. D predicts 　　73. D through 　　74. D and 　　75. A sensitive 　　76. B experience 　　77. C as well as 　　78. B emotions 　　79. A to 　　80. B inevitable 　　81. C receive 　　82. B with 　　83. A quality 　　84. B positive 　　85. C memories 86. D increased Part Vl Translation (5 minutes) 　　87. Those flowers looked as if they hadn't been watered for a long time(好长时间没有浇水了)。 　　【点评】they即flowers做主语，用被动语态。一段时间应用完成时，looked过去式相比，后面应该过去 完成时。  　　88. Fred bought a car last week. It is 1,000 cheaper than mine(比我的车便宜一千英镑)。 　　【点评】简单的比较级，cheaper than。不需要重复car，直接用mine代替my car。 　　89. This TV program is quite boring. We might as well listen to the music (不妨听听音乐)。 　　【点评】might as well“不妨”，原句中有might。listen to the music，听音乐。 　　90. He left his office in a hurry, with lights on and doors open(灯亮着，门开着)。 　　【点评】with短语做伴随状语，逻辑主语和表语之间的系动词省略。 　　91.The famous novel is said to have been translated into multiple languages(已经被译成多种语言)。 　　【点评】be said to后面跟动词原型，“已经被译”，用完成时被动语态have been translated，介词用into。