2020 12
Part I
Writing
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay on why students should be encouraged 
to develop effective communication skills. You should write at least 150 words but no more than 200 words.
Part H
Listening Comprehension
(30 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will 
hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a 
question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark 
the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
1. A) A driving test.
B) A video game.
2. A) He found it instructive and realistic.
C) Traffic routes.
D) Cargo logistics.
B) He bought it when touring Europe.
C) He was really drawn to its other versions.
D) He introduced it to his brother last year.
3. A) Traveling all over the country.
B) Driving from one city to another.
4. A) Clearer road signs.
B) More people driving safely.
C) Stricter traffic rules.
C) The details in the driving simulator.
D) The key role of the logistics industry.
D) More self-driving trucks on the road.
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
5. A) It isn’t so enjoyable as he expected.
B) It isn’t so motivating as he believed.
C) It doesn’t enable him to earn as much money as he used to.
D) It doesn’t seem to offer as much freedom as he anticipated.
6. A) Not all of them care about their employees’ behaviors.
B) Few of them are aware of their employees’ feelings.
C) Few of them offer praise and reward to their employees.
D) Not all of them know how to motivate their employees.
7. A) Job satisfaction. B) Self-awareness. C) Autonomy.
8. A) The importance of cultivating close relationships with clients.
B) The need for getting recommendations from their managers.
C) The advantages of permanent full-time employment.
D) The way to explore employees’ interests and talents.
D) Money.
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or 
four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you 
must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A ), B), C) and D). Then mark the 
corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
A&2020^12£ 24
 Questions 9 to 11 are based on the passage you have just heard.
9. A) Consumers visualize their activities in different weather.
B) Good weather triggers consumers’ desire to go shopping.
C) Weather conditions influence consumers’ buying behavior.
D) Consumers’ mental states change with the prices of goods.
10. A) Active consumption. 
C) Individual association.
B) Direct correlation. 
D) Mental visualization.
11. A) Enabling them to simplify their mathematical formulas.
B) Helping them determine what to sell and at what price.
C) Enabling them to sell their products at a higher price.
D) Helping them advertise a greater variety of products.
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.
12. A) A naturally ventilated office is more comfortable.
B) A cool office will boost employees’ productivity.
C) Office air-conditioning should follow guidebooks.
D) Air-conditioning improves ventilation in the office.
13. A) People in their comfort zone of temperature are more satisfied with their productivity.
B) People in different countries vary in their tolerance to uncomfortable temperatures.
C) Twenty-two degrees is the optimal temperature for office workers.
D) There is a range of temperatures for people to feel comfortable.
14. A) It will have no negative impact on work. C) It will sharply decrease work efficiency.
B) It will be immediately noticeable. 
D) It will cause a lot of discomfort.
15. A) They tend to favor lower temperatures.
B) They suffer from rapid temperature changes.
C) They are not bothered by temperature extremes.
D) They become less sensitive to high temperatures.
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed by three or four 
questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best 
answer from the four choices marked A') , B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer 
Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the recording you have just heard.
16. A) It overlooked the possibility that emotions may be controlled.
B) It ignored the fact that emotions are personal and subjective.
C) It classified emotions simply as either positive or negative.
D) It measured positive and negative emotions independently.
17. A) Sitting alone without doing anything seemed really distressing.
B) Solitude adversely affected the participants’ mental well-being.
C) Sitting alone for 15 minutes made the participants restless.
D) Solitude had a reductive effect on high-arousal emotions.
18. A) It proved hard to depict objectively. 
C) It helped increase low-arousal emotions.
B) It went hand in hand with sadness. 
D) It tended to intensify negative emotions.
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the recording you have just heard.
19. A) It uses up much less energy than it does in deep thinking.
B) It remains inactive without burning calories noticeably.
C) It continues to bum up calories to help us stay in shape.
D) It consumes almost a quarter of the body’s total energy.
2020 
12 
25
 20. A) Much of the consumption has nothing to do with conscious activities.
B) It has something to do with the difficulty of the activities in question.
C) Energy usage devoted to active learning accounts for a big part of it.
D) A significant amount of it is for performing difficult cognitive tasks.
21. A) It is believed to remain basically constant.
B) It is a prerequisite for any mental activity.
C) It is conducive to relieving mental exhaustion.
D) It is thought to be related to food consumption.
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.
22. A) Job candidates rarely take it seriously.
B) Job seekers tend to have a ready answer.
C) Job seekers often feel at a loss where to start in answering it.
D) Job candidates can respond freely due to its open-ended nature.
23. A) Follow their career coaches’ guidelines.
B) Strive to take control of their narrative.
C) Do their best to impress the interviewer.
D) Repeat the information on their resume.
24. A) To reflect on their past achievements as well as failures.
B) To produce examples for different interview questions.
C) To discuss important details they are going to present.
D) To identify a broad general strength to elaborate on.
25. A) Getting acquainted with the human resources personnel.
B) Finding out why the company provides the job opening.
C) Figuring out what benefits the company is able to offer them.
D) Tailoring their expectations to the company’s long-term goal.
Part H 
Reading Comprehension 
(40 minutes)
Section A
Directions; In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each 
blank from a list of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully 
before making your choices. Each choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding 
letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the 
words in the bank more than once.
Virtually every activity that entails or facilitates in-person human interaction seems to be in the midst 
of a total meltdown as the coronavirus 
outbreak erases Americans’ desire to travel. Amtrak
says bookings are down 50 precent and cancelations are up 300 percent. Hotels in San Francisco are 
experiencing
26  rates between 70 and 80 percent. Broadway goes dark on Thursday night.
Universities, now emptying their campuses, have never tried online learning on this
27 . White­
collar companies like Amazon, Apple, and the New York Times are asking employees to work from home 
for the
28 future.
But what happens after the coronavirus?
In some ways, the answer iss All the old normal stuff. The pandemic 
will take lives,
29
economies and destroy routines, but it will pass. Americans will never stop going to basketball 
games. They won’t stop going on vacation. They’ll meet to do business. No decentralizing technology so 
far—not telephones, not television, and not the internet—has dented that human desire to shake hands, 
despite technologists’
30___ to the contrary.
Yet there are real reasons to think that things will not return to the way they were last week. Small 
31
create small societal shifts; big ones change things for good. The New York transit strike of
A&2020 4£12Jj 26
 1980 is
32___ with prompting several long-term changes in the city, including bus and bike lanes, and
women wearing sports shoes to work. The Spanish flu pandemic of 1918 prompted the development of 
national health care in Europe.
Here and now, this might not even be a question of
33 . It’s not clear that the cruise industry 
will
34 . Or that public transit won’t go broke without
35 assistance. The infrastructure 
might not even be in place to do what we were doing in 2019.
A) credentials
F) foreseeable
K) subtle
B) credited
G) predictions
L) summoned
C) cumulative
H) preference
M) survive
D) disruptions
I) scale
N) vacancy
E) federal
J) strangle
O) wedge
Section B
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each 
statement contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the 
information is derived. You may choose a paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a 
letter. Answer the questions by marking the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2.
Slow Hope
A) Our world is full of—mostly untold—stories of slow hope, driven by the idea that change is possible. 
They are ‘slow’ in their unfolding, and they are slow because they come with setbacks.
B) At the beginning of time—so goes the myth—humans suffered, shivering in the cold and dark until the 
titan ( g. A) Prometheus stole fire from the gods. Just as in the myth, technology—first fire and stone 
tools, and later farming, the steam engine and industry, fossil fuels, chemicals and nuclear power— 
has allowed us to alter and control the natural world. The myth also reminds us that these advances 
have come at a price: as a punishment for Prometheus’ crime, the gods created Pandora, and they gave 
her a box filled with evils and curses. When Pandora’s box was opened, it unleashed swarms of diseases 
and disasters upon humankind.
C) Today we can no longer ignore the ecological curses that we have released in our search for warmth and 
comfort. In engineering and exploiting and transforming our habitat, we have opened tens of 
thousands of Pandora’s boxes. In recent decades, environmental threats have expanded beyond 
regional boundaries to have global reach and, most hauntingly, are multiplying at a dizzying rate. On 
a regular basis, we are reminded that we are running out of time. Year after year, faster and faster, 
consumption outpaces the biological capacity of our planet. Stories of accelerated catastrophe multiply. 
We fear the breakdown of the electric grid, the end of non-renewable resources, the expansion of 
deserts, the loss of islands, and the pollution of our air and water.
D) Acceleration is the signature of our time. Populations and economic activity grew slowly for much of
human history. For thousands of years and well into early modern times, world economies saw no 
growth at all, but from around the mid-19 th century and again, in particular, since the mid-20 th, the 
real GDP has increased at an enormous speed, and so has human consumption. In the Middle Ages, 
households in Central Europe might have owned fewer than 30 objects on average? in 1900, this 
number had increased to 400, and in 2020 to 15,000. The acceleration of human production, 
consumption and travel has changed the animate and inanimate spheres. It has echoed through natural 
processes on which humans depend. Species extinction, deforestation, damming of rivers, occurrence 
of floods, the depletion of ozone, the degradation of ocean systems and many other areas are all 
experiencing acceleration. If represented graphically, the curve for all these changes looks rather like 
that well-known hockey stick: with little change over millennia 
and a dramatic upswing over
the past decades.
E) Some of today’s narratives about the future seem to suggest that we too, like Prometheus, will be saved
A 2020 
12 
27
 by a new Hercules, a divine engineer, someone who will mastermind, manoeuvre and manipulate our 
planet. They suggest that geoengineering, cold fusion or faster-than-light spaceships might transcend 
once and for all the terrestrial constraints of rising temperatures, lack of energy, scarcity of food, lack 
of space, mountains of waste, polluted water—you name it.
F) Yet, if we envisage our salvation to come from a deus ex machina 0^®^), from a divine engineer 
or a tech solutionist who will miraculously conjure up a new source of energy or another cure-all with 
revolutionary potency, we might be looking in the wrong place. The fact that we now imagine our 
planet as a whole does not mean that the ‘rescue’ of our planet will come with one big global stroke of 
genius and technology. It will more likely come by many small acts. Global heating and environmental 
degradation are not technological problems. They are highly political issues that are informed by 
powerful interests. Moreover, if history is a guide, then we can assume that any major transformations 
will once again be followed by a huge set of unintended consequences. So what do we do?
G) This much is clear: we need to find ways that help us flatten the hockey-stick curves that reflect our 
ever-faster pace of ecological destruction and social acceleration. If we acknowledge that human 
manipulation of the Earth has been a destructive force, we can also imagine that human endeavours 
can help us build a less destructive world in the centuries to come. We might keep making mistakes. 
But we will also keep learning from our mistakes.
H) To counter the fears of disaster, we need to identify stories, visions and actions that work quietly 
towards a more hopeful future. Instead of one big narrative, a story of unexpected rescue by a larger- 
than-life hero, we need multiple stories: we need stories, not only of what Rob Nixon of Princeton 
University has called the ‘slow violence’ of environmental degradation (that is, the damage that is 
often invisible at first and develops slowly and gradually), but also stories of what I call ‘slow hope’.
I) We need an acknowledgement of our present ecological plight but also a language of positive change, 
visions of a better future. In The Principle of Hope (1954-1959), Ernst Bloch, one of the leading 
philosophers of the future, wrote that ‘ the most tragic form of loss... is the loss of the capacity to 
imagine that things could be different’. We need to identify visions and paths that will help us imagine 
a different, more just and more ecological world. Hope, for Bloch, has its starting point in fear, in 
uncertainty, and in crisis: it is a creative force that goes hand in hand with utopian (J»4€/p6(r) 
‘wishful images’. It can be found in cultural products of the past—in fairy tales, in fiction, in 
architecture, in music, in the movies—in products of the human mind that contain ‘the outlines of a 
better world’. What makes us ‘authentic’ as humans are visions of our ‘potential’. In other words: 
living in hope makes us human.
J) The power of small, grassroots movements to make changes that spread beyond their place of origin can
be seen with the Slow Food movement, which began in Italy in the 1980s. The rise of fast-food 
restaurants after the Second World War produced a society full of cheap, industrially made foodstuffs. 
Under the leadership of Carlo Petrini, the Slow Food movement began in Piedmont, a region of Italy 
with a long history of poverty, violence and resistance to oppression. The movement transformed it 
into a region hospitable to traditional food cultures—based on native plants and breeds of animals. 
Today, Slow Food operates in more than 160 countries, poor and rich. It has given rise to thousands of 
projects around the globe, representing democratic politics, food sovereignty, biodiversity and 
sustainable agriculture.
K) The unscrupulous (commodification of food and the destruction of foodstuffs will 
continue to devastate soils, livelihoods and ecologies. Slow Food cannot undo the irresistible 
developments of the global food economy, but it can upset its theorists, it can ‘speak differently’, and 
it can allow people and their local food traditions and environments to flourish. Even in the United 
States—the fast-food nation—small farms and urban gardens are on the rise. The US Department of 
Agriculture provides an Urban Agriculture Toolkit and, according to a recent report, American 
millennials --ft) are changing their diets. In 2017, 6 per cent of US consumers claimed to be 
strictly vegetarian, up from 1 per cent in 2014. As more people realise that ‘eating is an agricultural 
act’, as the US poet and environmental activist Wendell Berry put it in 1989, slow hope advances.
A& 2020 
12 
28
 36. It seems some people today dream that a cutting-edge new technology might save them from the 
present ecological disaster.
37. According to one great thinker, it is most unfortunate if we lose the ability to think differently.
38. Urgent attention should be paid to the ecological problems we have created in our pursuit of a 
comfortable life.
39. Even in the fast-food nation America, the number of vegetarians is on the rise.
40. The deterioration of the ecological system is accelerating because of the dramatic increase of human 
production and consumption.
41. It is obvious that solutions must be found to curb the fast worsening environment and social 
acceleration.
42. Many people believe changing the world is possible, though it may take time and involve setbacks.
43. It might be wrong to expect that our world would be saved at one stroke with some miraculous 
technology.
44. It is human nature to cherish hopes for a better world.
45. Technology has given us humans the power to change the natural world, but we have paid a price for 
the change.
Section C
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished 
statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) andD). You should decide on the 
best choice and mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
Vegetarians would prefer not to be compelled to eat meat. Yet the reverse compulsion (?£&) is 
hidden in the proposals for a new plant-based “planetary diet. ” Nowhere is this more visible than in India.
Earlier this year, the EAT-Lancet Commission released its global report on nutrition and called for a 
global shift to a more plant-based diet and for “ substantially reducing consumption of animal source 
foods.” In countries like India, that call could become a tool to aggravate an already tense political 
situation and stress already undernourished populations.
The EAT report presumes that “traditional diets” in countries like India include little red meat, which 
might be consumed only on special occasions or as minor ingredients in mixed dishes.
In India, however, there is a vast difference between what people would wish to consume and what 
they have to consume because of innumerable barriers around class, religion, culture, cost, geography, 
etc. Policymakers in India have traditionally pushed for a cereal-heavy “vegetarian diet” on a meat-eating 
population as a way of providing the cheapest sources of food.
Currently, under an aggressive Hindu nationalist government, Muslims, Christians, disadvantaged 
classes and indigenous communities are being compelled to give up their traditional foods.
None of these concerns seem to have been appreciated by the EAT-Lancet Commission’s 
representative, Brent Loken, who said “India has got such a great example” in sourcing protein from 
plants.
But how much of a model for the world is India’s vegetarianism? In the Global Hunger Index 2019, 
the country ranks 102nd out of 117. Data from the National Family Health Survey indicate that only 10 
percent of infants of 6 to 23 months are adequately fed.
Which is why calls for a plant-based diet modeled on India risk offering another whip with which to 
beat already vulnerable communities in developing countries.
A diet directed at the affluent West fails to recognize that in low-income countries undernourished 
children are known to benefit from the consumption of milk and other animal source foods, improving 
cognitive functions, while reducing the prevalence of nutritional deficiencies as well as mortality.
A& 2020 
12 
29
 EAT-Lancet claimed its intention was to “spark conversations” among all Indian stakeholders. Yet 
vocal critics of the food processing industry and food fortification strategies have been left out of the 
debate. But the most conspicuous omission may well be the absence of India’s farmers.
The government, however, seems to have given the report a thumbs-up. Rather than addressing 
chronic hunger and malnutrition through an improved access to wholesome and nutrient-dense foods, the 
government is opening the door for company-dependent solutions, ignoring the environmental and 
economic cost, which will destroy local food systems. It’s a model full of danger for future generations.
46. What is more visible in India than anywhere else according to the passage?
A) People’s positive views on the proposals for a “planetary diet. ”
B) People’s reluctance to be compelled to eat plant-based food.
C) People’s preferences for the kind of food they consume.
D) People’s unwillingness to give up their eating habits.
47. What would the EAT-Lancet Commission’s report do to many people in countries like India?
A) Radically change their dietary habits.
B) Keep them further away from politics.
C) Make them even more undernourished.
D) Substantially reduce their food choices.
48. What do we learn from the passage about food consumption in India?
A) People’s diet will not change due to the EAT-Lancet report.
B) Many people simply do not have access to foods they prefer.
C) There is a growing popularity of a cereal-heavy vegetarian diet.
D) Policymakers help remove the barriers to people’s choice of food.
49. What does the passage say about a plant-based diet modeled on India?
A) It may benefit populations whose traditional diet is meat-based.
B) It may be another blow to the economy in developing countries.
C) It may help narrow the gap between the rich and poor countries.
. D) It may worsen the nourishment problem in low-income countries.
50. How does the Indian government respond to the EAT-Lancet Commission’s proposals?
A) It accepts them at the expense of the long-term interests of its people.
B) It intends them to spark conversations among all Indian stakeholders.
C) It gives them approval regardless of opposition from nutrition experts.
D) It welcomes them as a tool to address chronic hunger and malnutrition.
Passage Two
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
Back in 1964, in his book Games People Play, psychiatrist Eric Berne described a pattern of 
conversation he called “Why Don’t You—Yes But”, which remains one of the most irritating aspects of 
everyday social life. The person adopting the strategy is usually a chronic complainer. Something is 
terrible about their relationship, job, or other situation, and they moan about it ceaselessly, but find some 
excuse to dismiss any solution that’s proposed. The reason, of course, is that on some level they don’t want 
a solution; they want to be validated in their position that the world is out to get them. If they can “win” 
the game—dismissing every suggestion until their interlocutor 
gives up in annoyance—they get to
feel pleasurably righteous (6$) in their resentments and excused from any obligation to change.
Part of the trouble here is the so-called responsibility/fault fallacy 
When you’re feeling hard
done by—taken for granted by your partner, say, or obliged to work for a half-witted boss—it’s easy to 
become attached to the position that it’s not your job to address the matter, and that doing so would be an 
admission of fault. But there’s a confusion here. For example, if I were to discover a newborn at my front 
door, it wouldn’t be my fault, but it most certainly would be my responsibility. There would be choices to 
make, and no possibility of avoiding them, since trying to ignore the matter would be a choice. The point
2020 ^12^ 
30
 is that what goes for the baby on the doorstep is true in all cases s even if the other person is 100% in the 
wrong, there’s nothing to be gained, long-term, from using this as a justification to evade responsibility.
Should you find yourself on the receiving end of this kind of complaining, there’s an ingenious way to 
shut it down—which is to agree with it, ardently. Psychotherapist Lori Gottlieb describes this as “over­
validation”. For one thing, you’ll be spared further moaning, since the other person’s motivation was to 
confirm her beliefs, and now you’re confirming them. But for another, as Gottlieb notes, people 
confronted with over-validation often hear their complaints afresh and start arguing back. The notion that 
they’re utterly powerless suddenly seems unrealistic—not to mention rather annoying—so they’re prompted 
instead to generate ideas about how they might change things.
“And then, sometimes, something magical might happen,” Gottlieb writes. The other person “might 
realise she’s not as trapped as you are saying she is, or as she feels.” Which illustrates the irony of the 
responsibility/fault fallacy: evading responsibility feels comfortable, but turns out to be a prison; whereas 
assuming responsibility feels unpleasant, but ends up being freeing.
51. What is characteristic of a chronic complainer, according to psychiatrist Eric Berne?
A) They only feel angry about their ill treatment and resent whoever tries to help.
B) They are chronically unhappy and ceaselessly find fault with people around them.
C) They constantly dismiss others’
 proposals
 while
 taking
 no
 responsibility
 for
 tackling
 the
 problem.
D) They  
lack  
the  
kn w e g a d
 
basic
 
skills
 
required
 
for
 
successful
 
conversations
 
with
 
their
 
interlocutors.
52. What does the author try to illustrate with the example of the newborn on one’s doorstep?
A) People tend to think that one should not be held responsible for others’ mistakes.
B) It is easy to become attached to the position of overlooking one’s own fault.
C) People are often at a loss when confronted with a number of choices.
D) A distinction should be drawn between responsibility and fault.
53. What does the author advise people to do to chronic complainers?
A) Stop them from going further by agreeing with them.
B) Listen to their complaints ardently and sympathetically.
C) Ask them to validate their beliefs with further evidence.
D) Persuade them to clarify the confusion they have caused.
54. What happens when chronic complainers receive over-validation?
A) They are motivated to find ingenious ways to persuade their interlocutor.
B) They are prompted to come up with ideas for making possible changes.
C) They are stimulated to make more complaints.
D) They are encouraged to start arguing back.
55. How can one stop being a chronic complainer according to the author?
A) Analysing the so-called responsibility/fault fallacy.
B) Avoiding hazardous traps in everyday social life.
C) Assuming responsibility to free oneself.
D) Awaiting something magical to happen.
Part F 
Translation 
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You 
should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
&3k&;k.#f-(Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge)55 
D — Is) -?-'$■ #
A&2020^12£ 31
knowledge
