2020年9月六级真题（第2套）
Part I 
Wri归
(30 minutes) 
Directio皿：For扰is part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay on the saying Wealth of the 
mind is the only true wealth. You sho血write at le邸t 150 words but no more than 
200 words. 
Part II 
Listening Comprehension 
(30 minutes) 
说明：由于2020年9月六级考试全国共考了1套听力，本套真题听力与第1套内容完全一样，只是顺
序不一样，因此在本套真题中不再重复出现。
Part m 
Section A 
Reading Comprehension 
(40 minutes) 
Directions: 1
九this sectio九，there is a passage with ten blanks. You are冗钾ired to select one word for 
each bla吐加m a list of choices gi泥n切a word bank扣彻wi九g the passage. 知ad the 
passage through ca飞
ifu/1,y before making your choices. Each cho忆e i九the ba九k is 
identified by a letter. R加e mark the corresponding letter for each it叨'l, 0九A邱wer
Sheet 2 with a si九gle line through the c砌咋. You may 九ot use a九y of the words i九the
ba砒mo冗tha九once.
It was perhaps when my parents—who also happen to be my housemates一left to go travelling for a 
couple of months recently that it 
26 
on me why I had not yet left the family home. 
It wasn't that I relied on them for __J江_ reasons, or to keep my life in order, or to ease the chaos 
of the home. These days, I rely on them for their company. 
I missed coming home and talking about my day at work, and I missed being able to read their 
faces and sense how their day was. I missed having uniqueŸinto tiny details that make a life. 
While the conversation about young adults staying longer at home is 
29 
by talk of laziness, of 
dependence 
, of an inability for young people to pull themselves together, _里do we talk of the way, 
in my case at least, my relationship with my parents has _坠_ strengthened the longer we have lived 
together. 
Over the years the power dynamic has changed and is no longer defined by one being the giver and 
another, the芘ker. So, what does this say for our relationships within the f. 
邸曲home?
According to psychologist Sabina Read, there are "some very positive possible 
32 
when adult 
children share the family home 
" , noting the " 
parent-child relationship may indeed strengthen and 
mature" in the process. 
But, she notes, a strong旱doesn't simply come with time. "The many changing factors of the 
relationship need to be acknowledged, rather than hoping that the mere passage of time will 
34 
connect parents to their adult children. It's important to acknowledge that the relationship paramet.ers 
źQ20_! 
!J_/ 
J (第红且
 have changed to avoid falling back into乌from the teen years. " 
A) bond
B) contemplated
C) dawned
D) hierarchy
E) insight
F) legislative
G) leverage
H) logistical
Section B 
I)
magically
J) outcomes
K) patterns
L) rarely
M) saturated
N) stereotypes
0) undoubtedly
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each 
statement contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph 
from which the information is derived. You may c加ose a paragraph more than once. 
Each paragraph is marked with a letter. A农劝er the questions by marking the 
corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2. 
How Telemedicine Is Transforming Healthcare 
A) After years of big promises, telemedicine is finally living up to i岱potential. Driven by faster int.ernet
connections, ubiquitous (无处不在的）smartphones and changing insurance standards 
, more health
providers are turning to electronic communications to do their jobs-and it's dramatically changing
the delivery of healthcare.
B) Doctors are linking up with patients by phone, email and webcam (网络摄像头）. They're also
consulting with each other electronically—sometimes to make split-second decisions on heart
attacks and strokes. Patients, meanwhile , are using new devices to relay their blood pressure , heart
rate and other vital signs to their doctors so they can manage chronic conditions at home.
Telemedicine also allows for better care in places where medical expertise is hard to come by. Five
to 1 
O times a day, Doctors Without Borders relays questions about tough cases from its physicians in
Niger, South Sudan and elsewhere to its network of 280 experts around the world, and back again
via internet.
C) As a measure of how rapidly telemedicine is spreading, consider: More than 15 million Americans
received some kind of medical care remotely last year, according to the American Telemedicine
Association, a trade group 
, which expects those numbers to grow by 30% this year.
D) None of this is to say that telemedicine has found its way into all corners of medicine. A recent
swvey of 500 tech-亚vvy (精通技术的）consumers found that 39% hadn't heard of telemedicine 
, and
of those who haven't used it, 42% said they preferred in-person doctor visits. In a poll of 1 500
family physicians, only 15% had used it in their practices一but 90% said they would if it were
appropriately ri戌mbursed (补偿）．
E) What's more, for all the rapid grow小，significant questions and challenges remain. Rules defining
and regulating telemedicine differ widely from state to state. Physicians groups are issuing different
guidelines about what care they consider appropriate to deliver and in what form.
F) Some critics also question whether the quality of care is keeping up with the rapid expansion of
telemedicine. And there's the question of what services physicians should be paid for: Insurance
coverage varies from health plan to health plan, and a big federal plan covers only a narrow range of
ƺ020. 9 /ƻ(第2 套）
 services. Telemedicine's future w山depend on how—and whether一regulators, providers, payers 
and patients can address these challenges. Here's a closer look at some of these issues: 
G) Do patients trade quality for convenience? The fastest-growing services in telemedicine connect
consumers with clinicians they've never met for a phone, video or email·visit—on-demand, 24/7.
Typically, these are for nonemergenc issues such as colds, flu, ear-aches and skin rashes, and
they cost around $45, compared with approximately $100 at a doctor's office, $160 at an urgent­
care clinic or $750 and up at an emergenc room.
H) Many health plans and employers have rushed to offer the services and promote them as a
convenient way for plan members to get medical care without leaving home or work. Nearly three­
quarters of large employers w出offer virtual doctor visits as a benefit to employees this year, up
from 48% last year. Web companies such as Teladoc and American Well are expected to host some
1. 2 million such virtual doctor visits this year, up 20% from last·year, according to the American
Telemedicine Association.
I) But critics wo叩that such services may be sacrificing quality for convenience. Consulting a random
doctor patients w出never meet, they say, further fragments the health-care system, and even minor
issues such as upp窃respiratory (上呼吸道的）infections can't be thoroughly evaluated by a doctor
who can't listen to your heart or feel your swollen glands. In a recent study, researchers posing as
patients with skin problems sought help from 16 telernedicine sites—with unsettling results. In 62
encounters, fewer than one-third disclosed clinicians'credential or let patients choose; only 32%
discussed potential side effects of prescribed medications. Several sites misdiagnosed serious
conditions, largely because they failed to ask basic follow-up questions , the researchers said.
"Telemedicine holds enormous promise, but these sites are just not ready for prime time 
, " says
Jack Resneck, the study's lead author.
J) The American Telemedicine Association and other organizations have started accreditation (鉴定）
programs to identify top-quality telemedicine sites. The American Medical Association this month
approved new ethical guidelines for telemedicine, calling for participating doctors to recognize the
limi扫tions of such services and ensure that they have sufficient information to make clinical
recommendations.
K) Who pays for the services? W血e employers and health plans have been eager to cover virtual urgent­
care visits, insurers have been far less willing to pay for telemedicine when doctors use phone, email
or video to consult with existing patients about continuing issues. "It's very hard to get paid unless
you physically see the patient," says Peter Rasmussen, medical director of distance health at the
Cleveland Clinic. Some 32 s扫tes have passed "pa讨ty" (等同的）laws requiring private insurers to
reimburse doctors for services delivered remotely if the same service would be covered in person,
though not necessarily at the same rate or frequency. Medicare lags further behind. The federal health
plan for the elderly covers a small number of telemedicine se讯ces一only for beneficiaries in rural
areas and only when the services are received in a hospital 
, doctor's office or clinic.
L) Bills to expand Medicare coverage of telemedicine have bipartisan (两党的）support in Congress.
Opponents wo叩that such expansion would be costly for taxpayers, but advocates say it would save
_money in the long run.
M) Experts say more hospitals are likely to invest in telemedicine systems as they move away from fee­
for-service paymen岱and into managed-care-type contracts that give them a set fee to provide care
for patients and allow them to keep any savings they achieve.
N) Is the state-by-st.ate regulatory system outdated? Historically, regulation of medicine has been left to
202q. 9 
/ 
3-J第2套）
 individual states. But some industry members contend that having 50 different sets of rules, 
licensing fees and even definitions of "medical practice" makes less sense in the era of telemedicine 
and is hampering its growth. Currently, doctors must have a valid license in the st.a抚where the 
patient is located to provide medical care, which means virtual-visit companies can match users only 
with locally licensed clinicians. It also causes administrative hassles (麻烦）for world-class medical 
centers that attract patien岱from across the country. At:the Mayo Clinic, doctors who treat out-of­
state patients can follow up with them via phone, email or web chats when they return home, but they 
can only discuss the conditions they treated in person. "If the patient wants to t.a1k about a new 
problem, the doctor has to be licensed in that state to discuss it. If not, the patient should哑to his 
primary-care physician about it, " says St.eve Ommen, who runs Mayo's Connected Care program. 
0) To date, 17 states have joined a compact that w川allow a doctor licensed in one member state to
quickly obtain a license in another. W血e welcoming the move, some telemedicine advocates would
prefer states to automatically honor one another's licenses, as they do with drivers'licenses. But
states aren't likely to surrender control of medical practice, and most are considering new
regulations. This year, more than 200 telemedicine-related bills have been introduced in 42 states,
many regarding what services Medicaid will cover and whether payers should reimburse for remote
patient monitoring. "A lot of states are still trying to define telemedicine, 
" says Lisa Robbin, chief
advocacy officer for the Federation of State Medical Boards.
36. An overwhelming m啦rity of family physicians are willing to use telemedicine if they are duly paid.
37. Many employers are eager to provide telemedicine service as a benefit to their employees because of
its convenience.
38. Different states have markedly different regulations for telemedicine.
39. With telemedicine, patients in regions short of professional medical service are able to receive better
medical care.
40. Unlike employers and health plans, insurers have been rather reluc尥nt to pay for some telemedicine
seIVices.
41. Some supporters of telemedicine hope states w川accept each other's medical practice licenses as
valid.
42. The fastest grow吨area for telemedicine services is for lesser health problems.
43. As telemedicine spreads quickly, some of i岱opponents doubt whether its seIVice quality can be
guaranteed.
44. The results obtained by researchers who pretended to be patien岱seeking help from telemedicine
providers are disturbing.
45. Some people argue that the fact that different stat.es have different regulations concerning medical
services hinders the development of telemedicine.
Section C 
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or 
unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A) 
, B) 
, C) and 
D). You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding letter on Answer 
Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. 
Passage One 
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following p邸sage.
Danielle Steel, the 71-ye旺old romance novelist is notoriously productive, having published 179 
20ƗƘ-ƙ/ 4j第2 一）
 books at a rate of up to seven a year. But a passing reference in a recent profile by Gl,a,mour magazine 
to her 20-hour workdays prompted an outpo血ng of admiration. 
Steel has given that 20-hour figure when describing her " 
exhausting" process in the past: "I start 
the book and don't leave my desk until the first draft is finished. " She goes from bed, to desk, to bath, 
to bed, avoiding all contact aside from phone calls with her nine children. "I don't comb my hair for 
weeks, 
" she says. Meals are brought to her desk, where she types until her fingers swell and her nails 
bleed. 
The business news website Quartz held Steel up as an inspiration, writing that if only we all 
础owed her "actually extremely liberating" example of industrious sleeplessness, we would be quick to 
see results. 
Well, indeed. With research results showing the cumulative effects of sleep loss and it.s impact on 
productivity, doubt has been voiced about the accuracy of Steel's self-assessment. Her output may be 
undeniable 
, but sceptics have suggested that she is guilty of erasing the role of ghostwriters (代笔人）at 
worst, gross exaggeration at best. 
Steel says working 20 hours a day is "pretty brutal physically. " But is it even possible? "No," says 
Maryanne Taylor of the Sleep Works. While you could work that long, the impact on productivity would 
make it hardly worthwhile. If Steel was routinely sleeping for four hours a night, she would be 
drastically underestimating the negative impact, says Alison Gardiner, founder of the sleep improvement 
programme Sleepstation. "It's akin to being drunk. " 
It's possible that Steel is exaggerating the demands of her schedule. Self-imposed sleeplessness has 
"become a bit of a status symbol" , says Taylor, a m沽guided measure to prove how powerful and 
productive you are. Margaret Thatcher was also said to get by on four hours a night, while the 130-hour 
work weeks endured by tech heads has been held up as key to their success. 
That is starting to change with increased awareness of the importance of sleep for mental health. 
"People are starting to realise that sleep should not be something that you fit in between everything 
else," says Taylor. 
But it is possible—if statistically extremely unlikely-that Steel could be born a " 
short sleeper" 
with an unusual body clock, says sleep expert Dr. Sophie Bostock. "It's probably present in fewer than 
1 
% of the population. " 
Even if Steel does happen to be among that tiny m加rity, says Bostock, it's "pretty irresponsible" 
to suggest that 20-hour days are simply a question of discipline for the rest of us. 
46. What do we learn from the passage about Glamour magazine readers?
A) They are intrigued by the exotic romance in Danielle Steel's novels.
B) They are amazed by the number of books而tten by Danielle Steel.
C) They are deeply impressed by Danielle Steel's daily work schedule.
D) They are highly motivated by Danielle Steel's unusual productivity.
4 
7. What did the business news website伽artz say about Danielle Steel? 
A) She could seive as an example of industriousness.
B) She proved we could liberate ourselves from sleep.
C) She could be an inspiration to novelists all over the world.
D) She showed we could get all our work done without sleep.
48. W地t do sceptics think of Danielle Steel's work schedule claims?
A) They are questionable.
. 
C) They are irresistible.
B)吓ey are alterable.
D) They are verifiable.
2ĸĹ0. 
_ĺJ-Ļ(第2套）
 49. W血does Maryanne Taylor think of self-imposed sleeplessness?
A) It may tum out to be key to a successful career.
B) It may be practiced only by certain tech heads.
C) It may symbolise one's importance and success.
D) It may well seive as a measure of self-discipline.
50. How does Dr. Sophie Bostock look at the 20-hour daily work schedul句
A) One should not adopt it without consulting a sleep expert.
B) The general public should not be encouraged to follow it.
C) One must be duly self-disciplined to adhere to it.
D) The m司ority must adjust their body clock for it.
Passage Two 
Questions 51 to 55 are b邸ed on the follow江gp邸sage.
Organic agriculture is a relatively un也pped resource for feeding the Earth's population, especially in 
the face of climate change and other郡bal challenges. That's the conclusion I reached in reviewing 
40 years of science comparing the long-term prospects of organic and conventional farming. 
The review study, "Organic Agriculture in the 21st Century, " is featured as the cover story for the 
February issue of the journal Nature Pl,a饥s. It is the first to compare organic and conventional 
agriculture across the main goals of sus也inability identified by the National Academy of Sciences: 
productivity, economics 
, and enviromnent. 
Critics have long argued that organic agriculture is inefficient, requiring more land to yield the same 
amount of food. It's true that organic farming produces lower ields, averaging 10 to 20 percent less 
than conventional. Advocates·contend that the enviromnental advantages of organic agriculture far 
outweigh the lower yields, and that increasing research and breeding resources for organic systems 
would reduce the yield gap. Sometimes excluded from these argumen岱is the fact that we already 
produce enough food to more than feed the world's 7. 4 billion people but do not provide adequate 
access to all individuals 
In some cases, organic yields can be higher than conventional. For example, in severe drought 
conditions, which are expected to increase with climate change in many areas, organic farms can 
produce as good, if not better, yields because of the higher water-holding capacity of organically farmed 
soils. 
What science does tell us is that mainstream conventional farming systems have provided grow四
supplies of food and other products but often at the expense of other sus呻ability goals. 
Conventional agriculture may produce more food, but it often comes at a cost to the envirorunent. 
Biodiversity loss, enviromnental degradation, and severe impacts on ecosystem services have not only 
accompanied conventional fanning systems but have often extended well beyond their field boundaries. 
With organic agriculture, enviromnental cos岱tend to be lower and the benefits greater. 
Overall , organic f: 
扛ms tend to store more soil carbon, have better soil quality, and reduce soil 
erosion compared to their conventional counterparts. Organic agriculture also creates less soil and water 
pollution and lower greenhouse gas emissions. And it's more energy-efficient because it doesn't rely on 
synthetic fertilizers or pesticides. 
Organic agricultw-e is also associated with greater biodiversity of plants, animals, insects and 
microorganisms as well as genetic diversity. Biodiversity increases the services that nature provides and 
improves the ability of farming systems to adapt to changing conditions. 
Despite lower yields, organic agriculture is more profitable for farmers because consumers are 
?02ƪ'.ƫl-Ƭ..J第2套）
 willing to pay more. Higher prices, called price premiums, can be justified as a way to compensate 
farmers for providing ecosystem services and avoiding environment.al damage or external costs. 
51. W血do we learn from the conclusion of the author's review study?
A) More resources should be tapped for feeding the world's population.
B) Organic fanning may be exploited to solve the global food problem.
C) The long-term prospec岱of organic farming are yet to be explored.
D) Orgaliic fanning is at least as prom沾ing as conventional fanning.
52. What is the critics'argument against organic farming?
 
A) It cannot meet the need for food.
C) It is not really practical.
t cannot mcrease fann yields.
D) It is not that productive.
B) I 
53. W血does the author think should be t.aken into account in arguing about organic farming?
A) Grow小in world population.
C) Inequality in food distribution.
B) Deterioration in soil fertility.
D) Ad 
vance m fanning technology.
54. W血does science tell us about conventional farming?
A) It w出not be able to meet global food demand.
B) It is not conducive to sustainable development.
C) It w诅eventually give way to organic fanning.
D) It is going mainstream throughout the world.
55. Why does the author think higher prices of organic fann produce are justifiable?
A) They give farmers going organic a big competitive edge.
B) They motivate fanners to upgrade fanning technology.
C) Organic farming costs more than conventional farming.
D) Organic farming does long-tenn good to the ecosystem.
Part IV 
Translation 
(30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are aJ, 
加或30 minu比s to tm邓la比a passage from Chinese i砒O
English. You sho血叩比your answ衍onA邱wer Sheet 2. 
《水》(Water Margin)是中国文学四大经典小说之一。这部小说基于历史人物宋江及其伙伴反抗
封建帝王的故事，数百年来一直深受中国读者的喜爱。
毫不夸张地说，几乎每个中国人都熟悉小说中的一些主要人物。这部小说中的精彩故事在茶馆、戏剧
舞台、广播电视、电影屏幕和无数家庭中反复讲述。事实上，这部小说的影响已经远远超出了国界。越来
越多的外国读者也感到这部小说里的故事生动感人、趣味盎然。
<>. 
ƙƚ_/一?_J第2套）
