大学英语六级考试2022 年9 月真题(第一套)
Part I
Writing
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 3 0 minutes to write an essay that begins with the sentence “ It is
now widely accepted that mutual trust and openness is the key to promoting cooperation. ” You can make
comments, cite examples or use your personal experiences to develop your essay. You should write at least 150
words but no more than 200 words.
Part II
Section A
(30 minutes)
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear
four questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you
must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding
letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
1. A) It enables people to earn more money.
C) It helps people with budgeting.
B) It teaches the importance of financing.
D) It introduces a novel way to invest.
2. A) Many Americans are not satisfied with their income.
B) Many Americans have no idea about how to invest.
C) Most Americans do not know how to save money.
D) Most Americans do not stick to a budget.
3. A) Keep track of his money.
C) Find more sources of income.
B) Live within his means.
D) Refrain from buying luxuries.
4. A) It offers a greater variety of items.
C) It changes one’s way of living.
B) It helps avoid unnecessary spending.
D) It saves one’s time for shopping.
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
5. A) It is brand-new.
C) It belongs to her mother.
B) It has plenty of rooms.
D) It has been vacant for months.
6. A) Space.
C) Appliances.
B) Tranquility.
D) Location.
7. A) Talk to his wife about the contract terms.
C) Check the references of the flat owner.
B) Pay the first month’s rent and a deposit.
D) Consult his solicitor one more time.
8. A) She can have a wonderful view of the pond.
C) She can make friends with new neighbours.
B) She will be much closer to her work place.
D) She will have plenty of space for her shoes.
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four
questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must
编者注：2022年9月六级考试共考了一套听力、一套阅读、三篇写作和三篇翻译，请读者知悉。
1
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
Listening Comprehension
 choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on
Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 9 to 11 are based on the passage you have just heard.
9. A) The more commercials they see, the more brands they get to know.
B) The more commercials they see, the more they adore celebrities.
C) The more television they watch, the fewer conflicts in the family.
D) The more television they watch, the greater their parents’ stress.
10. A) Inform children of the family’s financial situation.
C) Involve children in making purchasing decisions.
B) Shift children’s attention to interesting activities.
D) Help children understand advertising’s intent.
11. A) Their limited cognitive ability.
C) Their admiration for celebrities.
B) Their strong natural curiosity.
D) Their lack of social experience.
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.
C) Good guys may not always cooperate.
D) Good guys may get unfair treatment.
C) In comparison with others.
D) In accordance with set standards.
C) Leave them alone temporarily.
D) Cooperate with them sincerely.
C) Having to make too many sacrifices.
D) Being misunderstood by people around.
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed by three or four
questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best
answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1
with a single line through the centre.
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the recording you have just heard.
16. A) They are increasingly aware of gender differences.
C) They begin to see the importance of friendship.
B) They engage themselves in positive recollection.
D) They make friends with peers of the same sex.
17. A) Competing for position.
C) Forging close ties with friends.
B) Pursuing fashion.
D) Fulfilling family obligations.
18. A) They prioritize romance over friendship.
C) They begin to take friendship more seriously.
B) They try to strengthen same-sex friendships.
D) They compete intensely for romantic partners.
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the recording you have just heard.
19. A) They regard it as a matter of sheer privacy.
B) They are worried about being turned down.
C) They fear that their condition will be made widely known.
D) They are afraid to be discriminated against once recruited.
20. A) After receiving a job offer.
C) When confirming an interview.
B) During a job interview.
D) Upon completing a cover letter.
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
2
12. A) Bad guys may do good deeds.
B) Bad guys may go unpunished.
13. A) By what we do.
B) By fair evaluation.
14. A) Learn from them earnestly.
B) Compete with them actively.
15. A) Being dismissed as hypocritical.
B) Not getting the reward they deserve.
 21. A) Describe the true state of their health.
C) Stress the irrelevance of their disability to the job.
B) Provide all the information required.
D) Avoid mentioning the name of their disability.
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.
22. A) Their scores were least affected by music with speech.
B) It was the poorest when there was background speech.
C) Their scores were most depressed with instrumental music.
D) It was disrupted by the sound of an air conditioner or fan.
23. A) It has to do with the type and volume of the background noise.
B) It has to do with short-term memory for listening comprehension.
C) It depends on the overlap in processing different kinds of information.
D) It depends on the participants’ ability to concentrate on the task at hand.
24. A) Keep everything as quiet as possible.
C) Use vocal material as little as possible.
B) Play nothing but instrumental music.
D) Wear a pair of earphones or headphones.
25. A) Sociable people were immune to all distractions.
B) Shy quiet people were most adversely impacted.
C) Less outgoing people were more affected by silence.
D) Confident people were unaffected by high-arousal music.
Reading Comprehension
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each
blank from a list of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully
before making your choices. Each choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding
letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words
in the bank more than once.
The now extinct passenger pigeon has the dubious honor of being the last species anyone ever expected to
disappear. At one point, there were more passenger pigeons than any other species of bird. Rough
26
of their
population went as high as five billion and they accounted for around 40 percent of the total indigenous bird
population of North America in the early 19th century.
Despite their huge population, passenger pigeons were
27
to human intrusion into their nesting territory.
Their nests were shabby things and two weeks after the eggs
28
, the parent pigeons would abandon their
offspring, leaving them to take care of themselves. People discovered that these baby pigeons were really tasty,
and the adult birds were also quite
29
. First the Native Americans and then the transplanted Europeans came
to consider the birds a great
30 .
By the 1850s, commercial trapping of passenger pigeons was proceeding at an
31
pace. Hundreds of
thousands of the birds were being harvested every day to be made into popular pigeon pies. In addition,
large
32
of the pigeons’ nesting territory were being cleared away for planting crops and creating pasture
land. As numerous as the passenger pigeons were, they were not an
33
resource. By the 1880s, it was noticed
that the bird population had become seriously
34
. The last passenger pigeons killed in the wild were shot in
1899.
3
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
(40 minutes)
Part III
Section A
 Eventually those billions and billions of birds shrank to a single remaining
35 , a passenger pigeon named
Martha, who died on September 1, 1914, in captivity at the Cincinnati Zoo. In addition to being the end of an era,
it was also the first time humans were able to exactly time the extinction of a species.
A) vulnerable
B) unprecedented
C) tracts
D) specimen
E) robust
F) refuge
G) plazas
H) infinite
Section B
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each statement
contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the information is
derived. You may choose a paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the
questions by marking the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2.
Is computer coding a foreign language?
A) As computer coding has become an increasingly sought-after skill, more K- 12 schools are working it into
their curriculums. Some states have considered allowing students to forgo (放弃) foreign language for
coding classes, despite opposition from educators.
B) There’s a debate over whether it’s appropriate to teach coding in elementary schools, with fierce opinions on
each side. When it comes to allowing coding to fill foreign language requirements, though, most educators
agree: Coding should be added to curriculums, but not at the expense of foreign language classes.
C) The idea is that computer programming is a language, allowing people to communicate with machines and
programs. It’s the language of the 21st century and more valuable than a natural language, some advocates
argue. The computer science field is growing faster than schools can keep up because of budget constraints
and a lack of skills training for teachers.
D) According to the 2016 U.S. News/Raytheon STEM Index, computer science jobs have helped boost wages
in the U.S., and computer-related jobs hold the top seven positions in STEM fields for highest number of
workers. Foreign language interest, on the other hand, is declining for the first time since 1995. The number
of higher education language enrollments declined between 2009 and 2013 by more than 111,000 spots,
according to the Modern Language Association of America.
E) “I think the opportunity to give people a choice is important,” says Florida state Senator Jeremy Ring, who
introduced a bill last year that would allow Florida students to choose between foreign language and coding
classes for the purpose of university admissions requirements. “I think if you’re going to give two years of
language in high school, you might as well do computer coding.”
F) The Florida bill died this year after passing 35:5 in the state Senate when the full Legislature failed to take
action. It would have been the first state to try this initiative. Ring says that although he will be out of office,
an identical bill will be reintroduced within the next year by others on his behalf. “In the speech I gave on the
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
4
I) hatched
J) expired
K) excerpts
L) estimates
M) edible
N) depleted
O) delicacy
 Senate floor, I said, ‘We can be the first state to do this, or we can be the 50th state to do it. It’s our choice.
It’s going to happen,’” Ring says.
G) A Kentucky bill similar to the one in Florida was met with complaints from educators, and was then amended
to promote computer science education initiatives with no mention of foreign language requirements. Instead,
the state will provide support for higher quality certified teachers for programming classes. Under the
Washington bill, public universities would accept two years of computer science classes in place of two years
of foreign language for admission purposes. A report detailing the opinions of state university officials is due
to the Legislature by November 2017.
H) Texas passed a bill in 2013 that allows students to substitute computer coding only after they have attempted
and performed poorly in a foreign language class. Srini Mandyam, CTO and co-founder of kid-friendly
instructional coding company Tynker, believes allowing students to forgo foreign language because they
struggle with it is unproductive because every subject, whether art, math or language, is a significant
contribution to a well-rounded existence. “Many students don’t fare well with algebra but we never discuss
eliminating it or … say chemistry is now counted as an algebra class,” he said via email. “We teach algebra
because it’s important and we should teach foreign language and coding for the same reason. Exposure to
a wide breadth of subjects and material results in well-rounded students who are able to make informed
decisions … about what they want to pursue.”
I)
Computer science courses already fulfill a math or science high school graduation requirement in 28 states
and the District of Columbia, up from only 12 states in 2013. And while advocates of the bills say they
should count as foreign language instead, opponents stress the importance of balancing computer and foreign
language skills.
J)
Studies show that bilingualism (双语) correlates with cognitive development, intelligence, memory and
problem solving abilities, according to the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages.
A 20 0 7 study showed that foreign language students outperformed their non- foreign language peers on
standardized tests after only two to three years of study. And while a 2014 report from German and American
universities suggests that programmers are using language (but not mathematical) regions of the brain when
understanding code, critics remain wary. They say that regardless of cognitive functions, being monolingual
is a disadvantage in the increasingly international economy, even if English has become the de facto (事实
上的) language of business.
K) “Our world is shrinking but its problems are really growing,” says ACTFL National Language Teacher of the
Year Ted Zarrow, who teaches high school Latin in Westwood, Massachusetts, and has also studied Spanish,
French, German, Italian and Greek. “We need to find a way to put ourselves at the global table and to treat
each other with mutual respect. And learning languages allows us to do that because language is not part of
culture, language is culture.”
L) Even with the benefits and skill sets languages provide, recruiters and employers value computer skills more.
According to the National Association of Colleges and Employers’ 2016 report, study abroad and foreign
language fluency were not very influential in the employee hiring processes, but 55 percent of employers
looked for computer skills on applicants’ resumes. However, although 2016 computer science graduates can
expect to make the second highest starting salary compared with other jobs this year, the Bureau of Labor
predicts the demand for computer programmers will decrease 8 percent or by 26,500 jobs by 2024.
M) Ring says foreign language skills are important, but expresses doubt that school districts could work both
coding and language into their curriculum in a significant way because they lack the time in the school day.
5
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
 “Nothing against language,” he says. “I just think it’s something you have to start early and not just have
something that you do for a couple years in high school,” he says.
N) Zarrow agrees that foreign language education should begin earlier, but says it is possible to work both
computer programming and foreign language learning into schools evenly. He suggests an immersive, dual
language program where students spend half the day in English and half the day in another language, as
several schools around the country have successfully implemented. “The study of language fosters a respect
for diversity, a respect for ethnicity and really a respect for language,” Zarrow says.
O) Though the benefits of computer programming skills are vast, foreign language and coding experts agree
that computer science should be negotiated into curriculums rather than replacing foreign language outright.
Mandyam says the two skill sets are essential but unrelated. “Coding is an incredibly important 21st century
skill for our kids to learn, and that’s why we spend so much time trying to teach it,” Mandyam says via email.
“But I believe it is the same as or even really comparable to learning a foreign language. It would be a shame
to lose something so important for the sake of adding something else, even something as important as coding.
Clearly, education leaders must figure out a way to teach both.”
36. Employers attach more importance to applicants’ computer skills than their language competence.
37.One U.S. state senator proposed that high school students be allowed to study either foreign language or
computer coding.
38. Learning languages broadens students’ international perspective and nurtures mutual respect among peoples,
according to a high school language teacher.
39. One U.S. state will see to it that programming classes are taught by quality teachers.
4 0. Statistics show while computer-related jobs have been on the rise, foreign languages have become less
appealing to American students since mid- 1990s.
41. All school subjects are said to be essential to students’ well-rounded development.
42.There is consensus among most educators that coding should be taught in schools but should not replace
foreign language.
43. One study showed that foreign language learning improved students’ academic performance.
4 4. Being short of funding and qualified teachers, schools lag behind the fast developing computer science
field.
45. A distinguished high school language teacher also believes it is advisable to start learning a foreign language
at an earlier age.
Section C
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished
statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D). You should decide on the best
choice and mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
The U.S. and China don’t agree on much these days. Germany and France share a border and a currency
but are frequently at odds. The U.K. and India like to march to their own drum. But there’s one issue on which
all these countries see eye to eye: Technology companies are too big, too powerful, and too profitable. And that
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
6
 power is only likely to intensify, leaving governments with no choice but to confront it head-on by taking the
companies to court, passing new competition laws, and perhaps even breaking up the tech giants.
China is the latest to implement an anti-trust crackdown, unveiling anti-monopoly rules last month. The
draft rules followed the surprise suspension of a $37 billion stock offering by billionaire Jack Ma’s Ant Group
Co., making clear that no company can evade the government’s regulation. The moves in China coincide with
accelerating efforts in the U.S. and Europe to rein in Amazon.com, Apple, Facebook, and Google.
“ The big get bigger and bigger but without being better,” says Andreas Schwab, a German member of
the European Parliament who championed a 2014 resolution to break up Google. “Growing economic power,
growing influence on local markets all over the world, and a growing concern of competitors and consumers
altogether have made it happen now.”
In this new anti-trust era, the old focus on pricing power no longer applies, because several of the biggest
tech companies have established trillion-dollar monopolies by charging consumers next to nothing. Tech giants
are increasingly assuming powerful positions in banking, finance, advertising, retail, and other markets that force
smaller businesses to rely on their platforms to reach customers.
For years, Europe alone confronted the power of digital giants. Governments were alarmed that European
companies were failing to match Silicon Valley’s innovations or to stop Google and Facebook from vacuuming
up personal data and, with that, advertising revenue . Led by Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’ s
competition chief, countries have sought to police the market and encourage fair play.
In China the crackdown has been driven at least partly by fear that the homegrown tech industry is becoming
too powerful. The country has long championed Alibaba and Tencent, but their massive accumulation of data on
the Chinese citizenry is a growing concern for Beijing.
In the U . S . , a new breed of anti- trust experts argues that consideration should be given to privacy,
control over data, workers’ rights, and the overall impact on smaller companies. And the public in general
have grown increasingly skeptical of social media companies. More than 60% say the sector has a negative
effect on the country, and almost half want more regulation for social media, according to a 2 0 2 0 Pew
Research Center study.
46. What does the author say is the issue all major economic powers have to address?
A) How to ensure the sustainable growth of their tech giants.
B) How to keep the competitiveness of their tech companies.
C) How to break up the powerful giant tech companies.
D) How to stop tech companies from gaining monopoly.
47. What does the suspension of Ant Group Co.’s stock offering suggest?
A) All attempts to evade regulation are doomed to failure.
B) All attempts to monopolize sales must be cracked down.
C) All companies must be regulated by the government.
D) All companies, domestic or foreign, are created equal.
48. How are smaller companies impacted by tech giants’ business expansion?
A) They can no longer do business independent of tech giants.
B) They are frequently denied access to tech giants’ platforms.
C) They have to change marketing strategies to keep customers.
D) They no longer have the power to price their own products.
7
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
 49. What have EU countries done to confront the power of digital giants?
A) They have imposed strict regulation over digital giants’ advertising.
B) They have considered regulatory action to promote fair competition.
C) They have limited sales of digital giants’ products.
D) They have sought to protect consumers’ privacy.
50. What do Americans generally think of social media companies according to the author?
A) They are invading people’s privacy.
C) They are becoming untrustworthy.
B) They are increasingly influential.
D) They are growing out of control.
Passage Two
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
Born from the accessibility of mass air travel, modern international tourism has been popularized as
“holiday-making” in regions that offer comparative advantages of sand, sun and sea. Travel is often portrayed
as a tool for personal growth and tourism as an economic motor for destination countries and cities. There is a
tendency to assume that tourism is good for everyone involved.
Today the big bang of tourism drives over 1.2 billion tourists across international borders annually. Many
popular places are literally being loved to death. Recent protests in ports of call like Venice and Barcelona against
disturbances created by cruise ships show the unfortunate consequences of emphasizing quantity over quality in
tourism.
Uncontrolled tourism development has become a primary driver of social and environmental disruption.
Tourism studies provide much documentation of the many negative social impacts of tourism and resulting
resentment that local populations direct toward visitors.
Antagonism toward tourists typically develops in mature, heavily visited destinations. Protests in heavily
visited destinations suggest that traditional tourism has overstayed its welcome.
Residents often become frustrated when the benefits of tourism are not felt locally. Although it can generate
foreign exchange, income and employment, there’s no guarantee that multinational hotel chains will allocate
these benefits equitably among local communities.
On the contrary, when people stay at large resorts or on cruise ships, they make most of their purchases
there, leaving local communities little opportunity to benefit from tourist spending. These forms of tourism
widen economic and political gaps between haves and have-nots at local destinations.
In recent decades, local residents in destination communities also have found themselves negotiating new
cultural boundaries, class dynamics, service industry roles and lifestyle transformations. For example, data show
that tourism activity corresponds to increased social problems as local residents adopt the behaviors of tourists.
What does all this mean for the everyday traveler?
First, all tourists should make every effort to honor their hosts and respect local conditions. This means
being prepared to adapt to local customs and norms, rather than expecting local conditions to adapt to travelers.
Second, tourism is a market-based activity and works best when consumers reward better performers. In the
information age, there’s little excuse for travelers being uninformed about where their vacation money goes and
who it enriches.
Informed travelers also are better able to distinguish between multinational companies and local
entrepreneurs whose businesses provide direct social, environmental, and economic benefits for local residents.
Such businesses are in love with the destination and are therefore deserving of market reward. In the long run,
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
8
 being a responsible traveler means ensuring net positive impacts for local people and environments. With the
information available at our fingertips, there has never been more opportunity to do so.
51. What is the popular assumption about international tourism?
A) Its benefits may compensate for the adverse environmental consequences.
B) Its rapid development is attributed to people’s improved living standard.
C) It appeals to people in places with favorable geographical conditions.
D) It contributes to the economy of destination countries and regions.
52. What do we learn from some studies about uncontrolled tourism development?
A) It gives rise to an increase in mass confrontations.
C) It inhibits the steady growth of local economy.
B) It incurs local residents’ antagonism to tourists.
D) It brings in a large chunk of mobile population.
53. Why does the author say local residents of popular destinations often feel frustrated?
A) They fall victim to social conflicts and environmental disturbances.
B) They have little opportunity to enjoy themselves on cruise ships.
C) They cannot find employment in multinational hotel chains.
D) They do not think they benefit as much as they deserve.
54. How does the author say local residents in destination communities respond to tourism activity?
A) They endeavor to adapt to it.
C) They immerse tourists in their culture.
B) They readily adopt new lifestyles.
D) They try to upgrade their business models.
55. What can tourists do to exert more positive impacts on the tourist destinations?
A) Show interest in local customs and lifestyles.
C) Use the services provided by local businesses.
B) Seek possibilities to invest in local companies.
D) Give favorable comments about their services.
Part IV
Translation
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 3 0 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You
should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
贴春联( Spring Festival couplets)是中国人欢度春节的一个重要习俗。春联由一对诗句和四字横
批( horizontal scroll)组成，诗句和横批用金色或黑色写在红纸上，红色代表幸运，金色代表财富。
春联贴在大门左右两侧和门框上方。春联的诗句体现中国传统诗词的特点，两句诗的字数相同、内容
相关。横批凸显春联的主题，更是锦上添花。春联以简洁的文字描绘生动的形象，抒发美好的愿望。
当家家户户贴春联时，人们就会意识到春节已经正式拉开序幕。
9
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第一套) ·
 大学英语六级考试2022 年9 月真题(第二套)
Part I
Writing
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the sentence “ Today
more and more people begin to realize the pleasures and joys of real- world social interaction. ” You can
make comments, cite examples or use your personal experiences to develop your essay. You should write at least
150 words but no more than 200 words.
Part IV
Translation
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 3 0 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You
should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
中央电视台总部大楼位于北京市朝阳区，总建筑面积约55 万平方米。主楼由两座塔楼组成，因其
独特的造型，成为这座城市的一个热门景点，每天都吸引众多游客前来参观。大楼的创新结构是中外
建筑师长期合作的成果，不仅体现了环保意识，而且大大节约了建筑材料。中央电视台总部设有一条
穿过大楼的专用通道，向公众展示各个工作室以及中央电视台的历史。在那里，参观者还可以看到故
宫和北京其他地方的壮观景色。
·2022 年9 月六级真题(第二套) ·
10
 大学英语六级考试2022 年9 月真题(第三套)
Part I
Writing
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the sentence “Nowadays
students are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of developing digital skills. ” You can make
comments, cite examples or use your personal experiences to develop your essay. You should write at least 150
words but no more than 200 words.
Part IV
Translation
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 3 0 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You
should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
自古以来，印章在中国就是身份的凭证和权力的象征。印章不仅具有实用性，而且也是一种艺术
形式，是一门集书法与雕刻于一体的古老艺术，经常被看作与书画并列的独立艺术品。印章从材料的
选择、制作的工艺到字体的设计，都具有极其丰富的美学表现。其他国家的艺术家通常在其绘画作品
上签名，而中国艺术家则往往在其书画作品上盖上印章代替签名。这样，印章也就成为作品的组成部分，
是体现作品独特性的一种方式。
11
·
