2022 年12 月大学英语六级考试真题（第2 套）
Part I
Writing
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the
sentence “In an era of information explosion, it is vitally important to develop the ability to
think critically and make rational choices.” You can make statements, give reasons, or cite
examples to develop your essay. You should write at least 150 words but no more than 200
words.
PartⅡ
Listening Comprehension
(30 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each
conversation, you will hear four questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be
spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four
choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1
with a single line through the centre.
Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
1. A) She hasn’t started writing it.
B) She hasn’t decided on a topic.
C) She is proofreading the first draft.
D) She is working on the references.
2. A) He lent many books to the man for reference.
B) He offered the man advice on resource hunting.
C) He published a lot in a number of reputable journals.
D) He told the man to be selective when using e-resources.
3. A) He didn’t think her dissertation topic viable.
B) He wasn’t interested in her dissertation topic.
C) He didn’t want her to rush through her dissertation.
D) He wasn’t specific about the length of her dissertation.
4. A) Change her research methodology.
B) Narrow down her dissertation topic.
C) Consult her professor more.
D) Follow the man’s advice.
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard.
5. A) He has translated 12 books.
B) He is a well-known nutritionist.
C) His books sell well worldwide.
D) His latest book sold a million copies.
6. A) The desire of Americans to try exotic cuisines.
B) The demand for information about food safety.
 C) The fact that over half of Americans are overweight.
D)The fact that science books are difficult to read.
7. A) The general public.
B) Those who are overweight.
C) Those who want to lose weight.
D) The medical community.
8. A) Switch to a vegetarian diet.
B) Follow a personalized diet.
C) Adhere to doctors’ advice.
D) Cut carbohydrate intake.
Section B
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three
or four questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a
question, you must choose the best answer from the four choices marked A)，B)，C) and D). Then mark
the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 9 to 11 are based on the passage you have just heard.
9. A) The rate of their growth increased dramatically.
B) The growth of their new brain cells doubled.
C) They began to show signs of depression.
D) They began to get irritated and restless.
10. A) To avoid them in the future.
B) To warn others against them.
C) To make good sense of them.
D) To reflect on their causes.
11. A) Produce a surprising healing effect.
B) Weaken one’s immunity in the long run.
C) Make people more susceptible to illness.
D) Provide protection against mental illnesses.
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard.
12. A) Placing their own interests over their staff ’s.
B) Being overwhelmed by their daily routines.
C) Lacking the ability to relate to their staff .
D) Spending too much time handling email.
13. A) Their leadership may be challenged.
B) Their companies may go bankrupt.
C) Unexpected events may occur.
D) Major problems may result.
14. A) Keep an eye on their employees.
B) Motivate and inspire their team.
C) Sacrifice some of the immediate goals.
D) Have greater ambition in overall planning.
15. A) Cultivate self-control.
B) Filter their email boxes.
 C) Respond only after work.
D) Check only when necessary
Section C
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed by three or four
questions. The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best
answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer
Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre.
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the recording you have just heard.
16. A) The key to increasing healthy food supply.
B) The best way to improve marketing research.
C) The impact of advertisements on consumption.
D) The importance of the appearance of food.
17. A) By focusing on the nutrients in different foods.
B) By emphasizing the diversity of food.
C) By stressing pleasing aesthetics of food.
D) By winning the support of marketing professors.
18. A) They can attract customers with the healthy qualities of their products.
B) They can boost sales of healthy foods by making them visually appealing.
C) They can turn to marketing professors for advice.
D) They can rely on advertising for sales promotion.
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the recording you have just heard.
19. A) It has witnessed a spectacular surge in demand.
B) It has met much criticism from environmentalists.
C) It has seen more small businesses offering environment-friendly products.
D) It has experienced increasingly fierce competition among global companies.
20. A) Consumers now know much more about technology.
B) Their mass production has sharply reduced the price.
C) Consumers tend to favor all that is novel.
D) Their quality has been greatly improved.
21. A) Purchasing only this kind of products for home cleaning.
B) Writing positive comments about them on social media.
C) Demonstrating on TV how effective these products are.
D) Telling one another about their incomparable virtues.
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard.
22. A) Increasing cleaners’ workload.
B) Blocking the fountains’ works.
C) Breaking a time-honored ritual.
D) Polluting the fountains’ water.
23. A) They are occasionally retrieved by curious tourists.
B) They are regularly donated to charity organizations.
C) They are mostly used for the fountains’ maintenance.
 D) They are usually used as wages for fountain cleaners.
24. A) It is invested in a series of businesses.
B) It is used exclusively for its maintenance.
C) It is used to run a supermarket for the needy.
D) It is estimated to be about $40,000 a month.
25. A) He was arrested for stealing money from four fountain cleaners.
B) He was sentenced to 34 years’ imprisonment.
C) He collected rare coins from around the world.
D) He stole a lot of money from a fountain with a magnetic stick.
Part III
Reading Comprehension
(40 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one
word for each blank from a list of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read
the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each choice in the bank is
identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2
with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank more than
once.
The task of the global strategist of a business is to build a platform of capabilities
derived from the resources, experiences and innovations of units operating in multiple
locations, to transplant those capabilities wherever
26
, and then to systematically upgrade
and renew them—ahead of the competition.
Apple is an outstanding case of a company whose unique capabilities give it a worldwide
27
advantage, particularly with respect to its ability to build platforms from a product base
that integrates functional and
28
design. Apple has been able to leverage and exploit its
California-based design and marketing advantages successfully throughout the world. IKEA
is another such case. The do-it-yourself furniture and houseware company first developed a
compelling set of capabilities to design, manufacture and
29
furniture at low cost and
sell it in a novel way in Sweden. Later, IKEA successfully
30
this formula in many
other countries.
By contrast, Telefónica, a Spanish telecommunications company that is now the world’s
fifth largest telecom by
31
, first developed its special advantage abroad. In 1989 and
1990, Telefónica had the opportunity to enter Chile and Argentina, countries that shared many
institutional and cultural characteristics with its home country but that were
32
more
rapid market reform. Throughout the 1990s, Telefónica took what it learned in Chile and
Argentina about reconstructing former state-owned telecoms to other Latin American
countries that were privatizing their state telecoms and deregulating their telecom markets.
These examples might lead the reader to believe that creating a global advantage is an
easy task. But many other
33
of expensive failed experiments suggest that creating a
lasting global advantage actually requires a great deal of
34
and operational finesse (技
巧). Our research suggests that global winners typically create and sustain their international
presence through a systematic process of
35
, renewing and enhancing their core
capabilities.
 Section B
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it.
Each statement contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph
from which the information is derived. You may choose a paragraph more than once. Each
paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 2.
Fear of Nature: An Emerging Threat to Conservation
A) What do we lose when natural spaces and species disappear? Increasingly, research has
shown that as species and ecosystems vanish, it also chips away at our ability to preserve
what remains—because we no longer understand what we’re losing.
B) You probably see it all the time. The neighbor who puts pesticides on his lawn rather than
deal with annoying bees. The politician who votes against wildlife protection because
she’s never seen a wolf in the wild. The corporation that wants to bulldoze (用推土机推
平) the habitat of a rare frog.
C) At best this can be termed “the extinction of experience,” where our cultural and natural
histories fade from our memories and therefore our reality. At its worst it becomes
something even more concerning: “biophobia,” the fear of living things and a complete
aversion to nature.
D) This isn’t the fiction of living in a cold, empty dystopia ( 绝望的世界). Sadly, it’s
becoming a way of life for too many people—especially children. A recent study in Japan
paints a striking portrait of this problem. A survey of more than 5,300 school children in
the Tochigi Prefecture examined their perception of 14 local insect species and one spider.
The results? A collective “ew!” Most of the students saw the species as things to dislike or
fear, or even as sources of danger. The less experience the students had with nature, the
more negative their feelings.
E) The results were published earlier this year in the journal Biological Conservation. Lead
researcher Masashi Soga with the University of Tokyo says the study stemmed from
observations about today’s nature-deficient children. “Humans inherently avoid dangerous
organisms such as bees, but children these days avoid even harmless insects such as
butterflies and dragonflies ( 蜻蜓),” he says. “I have long wondered why so many of
today’s children react like this.”
F) Although the children’s reactions were somewhat expected, the new study did contain an
unexpected finding: Many of the surveyed children revealed that their parents also
expressed fear or disgust of the same animals. In fact these parental emotions were strong
A) aesthetic
F) fiscal
K) safeguarding
B) appropriate
G) instances
L) ship
C) clusters
H) rehabilitated
M) strategic
D) competitive
I) reproduced
N) transcend
E) exploiting
J) revenues
O) undergoing
 enough to overwhelm any positive experiences the children might have gained from direct
experiences in nature. As Soga and his coauthors wrote in their paper, “Our results
suggest that there is likely a feedback loop in which an increase in people who have
negative attitudes towards nature in one generation will lead to a further increase in
people with similar attitudes in the next generation.”
G) And that’s possibly the greater threat posed by extinction of experience. Soga suggests the
generational loss—a condition previously dubbed environmental generational amnesia
(遗忘)—could chip away at our societal ability to preserve what we’re losing. “I believe
that increased biophobia is a major, but invisible, threat to global biodiversity,” Soga says.
“As the number of children who have biophobia increases, public interest and support for
biodiversity conservation will gradually decline. Although many conservation biologists
still consider that preventing the loss of wildlife habitat is the most important way to
conserve biodiversity, I think preventing increased biophobia is also important for
conservation.”
H) What’s to be done about this? The paper makes several recommendations, the most
obvious of which is that children should experience nature more often. The authors also
suggest establishing policies to guide these natural experiences and increasing educational
programs about the natural world.
I) Helping parents to see species around them in a new light would make a difference, too.
And, of course, maintaining support for preserving the wild spaces where these “scary”
creatures live is the most important thing of all. That’s a point reinforced by another
recent study, which found that wild spaces located within urban areas—and the plants and
animals that thrive in them—are particularly important for human health and well-being.
J) Published in the journal Frontiers in Sustainable Cities, the study examined attitudes
toward Discovery Park, the heavily forested 534-acre public park in Seattle, Washington. It
found that the public had the most appreciation for—and gained the most value from—the
wildest parts of the park. “I have seen whales, seals, fish, eagles, shorebirds and many other
sea creatures in their natural habitat,” one survey participant wrote. “Coming here with
people has allowed me to connect and talk with them about conversation that simply does
not happen in everyday life,” wrote another.
K) The participants reported that their most valuable experiences in the park included
encountering wildlife, walking through open spaces, exploring the beach and finding
beautiful views. “We saw that a large majority of participants’ interactions, especially
their most meaningful interactions, depended on Discovery Park’s relative wildness,” says
lead author Elizabeth Lev, a master’s student in the University of Washington’s Human
Interaction with Nature Lab. This is only possible because the park is relatively wild.
After all, you can’t enjoy watching birds if there are no birds to follow; gaze at the sunset
if it’s obscured by skyscrapers; or stop and smell the flowers if they don’t have room to
grow.
L) And yet even this long-protected space could someday become less hospitable to nature.
Over the past few years a lot of people and organizations have suggested developing parts
of Discovery Park or the neighboring area. Most recently a plan proposed building 34
acres of much-needed affordable housing and parking spaces adjacent to the park,
bringing with them noise, traffic and pollution.
 M) If anything like that happened, both the park and the people of Seattle could lose
something vital. And that would continue the trend of chipping away at Seattle’s—and the
world’s—natural spaces, leaving just tiny pocket parks and green-but-empty spaces that
offer little real value to wildlife, plants or people.
N) “It is true that any interaction with nature is better than none, but I don’t want people to be
satisfied with any small bit of grass and trees,” Lev says. “We have been in this cycle of
environmental generational amnesia for a long time, where the baseline keeps shifting and we
don’t even realize what we’re losing until it’s gone. If we can get people to understand how
much meaning and value can come from having more experiences with more wild forms of
nature, then maybe we can stop this cycle and move toward conserving and restoring what we
have left.”
O) Building this understanding in an ever-more fearful and disconnected world may be the
biggest challenge. Peter Kahn, the senior author of Lev’s paper and the director of the Human
Interaction with Nature lab, made several suggestions for bridging this gap in this 2011 book,
Technological Nature. They echo the recommendation about getting children into nature, but
also include telling stories of how things used to be, imagining what things might be like in
the future, and developing a common language about nature, “a way of speaking about wild
and domestic interaction patterns, and the meaningful, deep and often joyful feelings that they
generate.”
P) No matter what techniques we use, this growing field of research illustrates that saving
nature requires encouraging people to experience it more often and more deeply. That calls
for additional research—Lev and her coauthors have published a toolkit that other
municipalities can follow to study the value of their own wild spaces—and clear
communication of the results. “If we can continue to show people the benefits of these wild
spaces,” Lev says, “maybe people will begin to see more value in keeping these areas
undeveloped—for the sake of our mutual benefit.”
36. A new study found parents’ aversion to certain animals would pass on to their children.
37. The disappearance of species and ecological systems erodes our ability to keep what is
left.
38. A study showed that the wildest areas of Discovery Park appealed most to the public.
39. The fear of living organisms is becoming more worrisome.
40. Preventing the increase in children’s fear of living creatures is also important for
conserving biodiversity.
41. Research shows that more and deeper experience people have with nature will help save
it.
42. Though humans naturally tend to avoid dangerous animals, today’s children try to stay
away from even harmless ones.
43. Development in and around Discovery Park could cause heavy losses to the park and the
local residents.
44. A large survey of school children found that their negative feelings grew as their
experience with nature diminished.
45. Elizabeth Lev believes increased contact with more wildlife helps conserve biodiversity.
 Section C
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions
or unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D).
You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2
with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
Some people in the US have asserted that forgiving student loan debt is one way to
stimulate the economy and give assistance to those in need. One government proposition is to
eliminate $10,000 of debt for ‘economically distressed’ students. Some in US Congress have
gone so far as to suggest forgiving up to $50,000 in debt per student borrower, but does
forgiving student debt necessarily correlate to helping the economically disadvantaged?
The answer is no. This policy is just giving money away to universities and the most
affluent students in attendance. Federal Reserve data reveals that the highest-income 40
percent of households owe approximately 60 percent of outstanding student debt, while the
lowest 40 percent owe just under 20 percent. This could be due to a combination of factors:
students from high-income households are more likely to go to expensive colleges, less likely
to receive financial aid, and more likely to have high incomes post-graduation. Plus, the
majority of student debt is held by graduate degree earners, who earn approximately 25
percent more than their undergraduate counterparts. Clearly, giving free reign to banks to
forgive student debt is a step in the wrong direction.
Other proposals for broader, long-term student loan plans have some fundamental
problems. One idea is to cancel student debt only for undergraduate degrees and for students
making less than $125,000.
This attempts to address the fact that Congress’ previously mentioned student loan
forgiveness plan largely helps out the wealthy, but is an adverse incentive for universities to
keep raising tuition and for students to choose to major in low-earning degree programs.
Colleges have no reason to make their programs more
affordable if they believe students will just take out more debt. And, students will feel more
comfortable making the irresponsible decision to go tens of thousands of dollars in debt to
major in impractical or idealistic subjects if they know their loans will be forgiven.
This is especially concerning given the pandemic (大流行病) has rendered a college
education practically worthless. Students are paying tens of thousands of dollars per year to
live at home and be lectured on the Internet. Do we really want to tell colleges that they can
get away with providing below-average service for an outrageous cost?
In the case of any of these student debt plans, working-class Americans who chose not to
or could not afford to go to college will be subsidizing the education of the professional class.
Plumbers and retail workers will be paying for the degrees of doctors and lawyers.
The US government’s effort to help those in debt is commendable but is this really the
solution that will help the poor financially recover?
46. Why do some people advocate forgiving student loan debt?
 A) They assert it will narrow the gap between the wealthy and the poor.
B) They believe it will benefit both the economy and the underprivileged.
C) They claim it will eliminate economic distress among college students.
D) They think the cost of education is the responsibility of the government.
47. What do we learn from the Federal Reserve data?
A) Approximately 60% of student debt remains unpaid.
B) Cancelling student debt benefits wealthy families most.
C) Forgiving student debt provides little benefit to universities.
D) Low-income families owe the biggest amount of student debt.
48. What does the author say students are likely to do if they know they needn’t repay their
loans?
A) They will choose to study subjects without considering their job prospects.
B) They will be free to pursue their goals without being burdened financially.
C) They will over-borrow and live beyond their means.
D) They will be able to enroll in expensive universities.
49. What does the author imply about colleges offering online education?
A) They cannot get away with the serious consequences.
B) They have suffered greatly from the current pandemic.
C) The tuition they charge is not justified by the quality of their service.
D) The tuition they charge has surged outrageously during the pandemic.
50. What will happen if any of the proposed student debt plans is implemented?
A) Plumbers and retail workers will have a chance of becoming professionals.
B) Working-class students will have increasing access to subsidized education.
C) Blue-collar workers will have to bear the cost of educating would-be high-earners.
D) A growing number of students will be able to earn degrees in medicine and law.
Passage Two
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
If there’s one rule that most parents cling to in the confusing, fast-changing world of kids
and media, it’s “No screens before age 2.”
As of today, that rule has been thrown out the window.
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), which first issued that recommendation
back in 1999, has extensively updated and revised its guidelines for children and adolescents
to reflect new research and new habits.
The new guidelines, especially for very young children, shift the focus from WHAT is
on the screen to WHO else is in the room. And in doing so, they raise some intriguing points
about the future of learning from media.
For babies younger than 18 months, AAP still says no screens at all are the best
idea—with one notable exception: Live video chat. Surveys indicate that families already
popularly believe that “Face time doesn’t count”, or at least that the benefit of virtual visits
with grandparents or other relatives outweighs the potential cost of exposing babies to the
laptop or smartphone.
 The AAP doesn’t cite positive evidence that infants actually get something out of this
kind of “conversation”, the way that they clearly do from live social interaction. But there’s
some observational
research that infants as young as six months old are emotionally engaged by playing live
peekaboo (躲猫猫游戏) with Grandma online.
For infants and toddlers (学步儿童), ages 15 months to 2 years old, there’s limited
evidence from a couple of very small studies that they can learn new words from educational
media, if and only if parents are watching alongside them, repeating what the video says
and/or drawing attention to what is on the screen. In other words, treating a video or an app
like a picture book is the best bet.
The flip side of this is that many studies have actually shown poorer language skills
correlated with earlier solo viewing of “educational” videos. There’s also research that shows
language delays in children who watch more TV and start watching earlier. In both cases, the
problem seems to be media replacing interaction with people. For this reason, the new AAP
guideline has changed from “avoid all screens under age 2” to “avoid solo media use in this
age group.”
For preschoolers ages 2 to 5, there’s more evidence that they have the ability to transfer
knowledge from screens to the real world, including early literacy and math. For this age
group, AAP recommends no more than an hour a day of screen use. And, just as with younger
children, they want care-givers to take part in screen time:
“Co-view with your children, help children understand what they are seeing, and help them
apply what they learn to the world around them.”
51. What do we learn about the “No screens under 2” rule?
A) It has met more and more resistance from parents.
B) It has proved helpful to children’s healthy growth.
C) It confuses parents with regard to kids’ education.
D) It has been discarded in line with recent research.
52. What do the new AAP guidelines advocate?
A) Young children should be accompanied by parents during screen time.
B) Parents should be emotionally involved in their children’s upbringing.
C) Young children should watch videos carefully selected by parents.
D) Parents should protect their children from too much media exposure.
53. What do families think of live video chat according to surveys?
A) It should not be regarded as screen time.
B) It helps babies to develop their verbal skills.
C) It is not as harmful as playing games on laptops.
D) It is a good substitute for video viewing.
54. What do researches find about kids solo viewing educational videos?
A) It arouses their interest in language learning.
B) It works no better than reading picture books.
C) It hampers their development of language skills.
D) It helps them acquire independent learning skills.
55. What does the author say about preschoolers ages 2 to 5?
 A) They can understand pretty well what they see on the screen.
B) They can learn on their own without much parental guidance.
C) They can make use of educational videos to develop digital literacy.
D) They can relate what they learn on the screen to real life situations.
Part IV
Translation
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese
into English. You should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
云贵高原（the Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau）大部分位于云南、贵州省境内，总面积约50
万平方公里，
平均海拔2000-4000 米，
是中国第四大高原。
云贵高原西高东低，
河流众多，
形成了许多又深又陡的峡谷（canyon）。峡谷中许多地方土壤肥沃，非常有利于多种农作
物生长。
云贵高原独特的自然环境造就了生物和文化的多样性。
它是中国森林和矿产资源类型十
分丰富的地区，
也是古人类起源的重要地区。云贵高原是中国少数民族数量最多的地区，
各
民族都保留了自己丰富多彩的文化传统。
