2022 年12 月大学英语六级考试真题（第3 套）
Part I
Writing
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the
sentence “With the application of information technology in education, college students can
now learn in more diverse and efficient ways.” You can make statements, give reasons, or cite
examples to develop your essay. You should write at least 150 words but no more than 200
words
PartⅡ
Listening Comprehension
(30 minutes)
特殊说明：由于多题多卷，官方第三套真题的听力试题与第二套真题的一致，只是选项
顺序不同，因此，本套试卷不再提供听力部分。
Part III
Reading Comprehension
(40 minutes)
Section A
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one
word for each blank from a list of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read
the passage through carefully before making your choices. Each choice in the bank is
identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each item on Answer Sheet 2
with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank more than
once.
American colleges and universities are using 64 percent less coal than they did a decade
ago, burning 700,000 tons last year, down from 2 million tons in 2008, the U.S. Energy
Information Administration (EIA) said in a report
26
yesterday.
All 57 schools that were burning coal in 2008 are using less now, and 20 have
27
coal completely, EIA found.
Most universities have turned to natural gas as a
28
, with state funding backing
the fuel switch.
While academic institutions use less than 0.1 percent of U.S. coal burned for power,
campus coal use has a history dating back to the 1800s when
29
to power was scarce.
Many universities still operate their own power plants. The Public Utility Regulatory
Policies Act of 1978 encouraged more electricity generation by allowing institutions to sell
30
power to utilities.
But EIA noted many coal-fired universities have signed onto the American College and
University Presidents Climate Commitment, which was launched in 2007.
About 665 schools are part of the program, which aims to
31
greenhouse gas
emissions. Thirty percent of the participants have pledged to be carbon
32
within 20
years.
 The Sierra Club’s Beyond Coal campaign, which also leads campaigns for universities to
withdraw their
33
in coal and other fossil fuels, lists 22 schools that have pledged to
move “beyond coal,” including
Clemson University, Indiana University, Ohio University, Penn State University, the
University of Louisville and the University of Tennessee, Knoxville.
The largest coal use
34
at colleges were in Michigan, Missouri, Tennessee and
Indiana. Indiana’s universities alone cut coal
35
by 81 percent between 2008 and
2015.
During the same period, Michigan made an 80 percent cut and Tennessee cut back by 94
percent at state institutions.
Section B
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it.
Each statement contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph
from which the information is derived. You may choose a paragraph more than once. Each
paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by marking the corresponding letter
on Answer Sheet 2.
Classical music aims to evolve, build audiences without alienating old guard
A) In 1913, classical music sparked a riot in Paris. Igor Stravinsky was introducing his
revolutionary “Rite of Spring” ballet to the world, with its discordant melodies and
unorthodox choreography (编舞), and the purists in the crowd expressed their disapproval
loud and clear. It might have been classical music’s version of the time Bob Dylan went
electric at the Newport Folk Festival. “The noise, fighting, and shouting in the audience
got so loud,” NPR’s music reporter Miles Hoffff man said of the Stravinsky debut, “that
the choreographer had to shout out the numbers to the dancers so that they knew what
they were supposed to do.”
B) It’s difficult to imagine a similar disturbance occurring today within America’s sacred
symphony halls. In fact, it’s hard to picture any kind of disruptive activity at all (unless
someone’s cell phone happens to go off and then you’d better watch your back). A
mannerly aura (氛围) hangs over most classical proceedings, and many of the genre’s
biggest supporters would have it no other way.
C) Today, Western audiences for classical music and opera and ballet are almost always well
dressed, older, respectful, achingly silent and often very wealthy (one has to be able to
afford most tickets). But as many of America’s most storied “highbrow” ( 高雅的)
A) abandoned
F) investments
K) released
B) access
G) mobilized
L) replacement
C) consumption
H) negligent
M) slash
D) contrive
I) neutral
N) surplus
E) duplications
J) reductions
O) void
 institutions struggle financially—the Philadelphia Orchestra’s much-publicized rebound
from bankruptcy is just one recent example—classical music fans and theorists are
wondering how the medium can weave itself into the 21st century’s cultural fabric
without sacrificing its integrity.
D) For example, should we feel OK “clapping” during classical music events, even if nobody
else is? Why shouldn’t we cheer for something great, like we do at a rock concert? The
Huffington Post recently ran a Great Debate on this issue and many commenters came out
on the side of silence. “There is no more rewarding experience in life than being part of an
audience where everybody is leaning forward in silence, thoroughly carried away by a
great performance of a masterpiece,” one commenter wrote. “Why is it so difficult for
folks to develop an appreciation and understanding for the mannerisms and traditions of
classical music?” asked another.
E) The truth is that classical music audiences weren’t always so polite. Robert Greenberg, an
award-winning composer, said that when Beethoven first performed his 7th Symphony,
audiences forced the orchestra to perform encores ( 重演) of certain movements
immediately, applauding wildly. And in the last few decades, he said, many audiences at
opera performances have abandoned pretenses, yelling “Bravo” when they feel like it.
F) “I don’t think there’s anything wrong with an audience showing their enthusiasm for a
proper moment by applauding, showing their joy,” Greenberg said, noting that the
stuffiness in concert halls is “one aspect of contemporary concert etiquette” he doesn’t
understand. “Instead of waiting half an hour to show enthusiasm, why not show it every
eight or nine minutes?”
G) Until the rules about behavior and clothing change, it’s hard to imagine multitudes of
young people filling concert halls on their own accord. They’re probably more likely to
head to Central Park to watch a free performance with a bottle of wine and their friends.
“I think anyone should be able to come into a performance dressed any way they like, and
be comfortable any way they like, sitting in that seat ready to enjoy themselves,”
Greenberg said. “Because it’s enjoyable.”
H) Greenberg stressed that he doesn’t want people to start respecting the music less, and he’s
not suggesting that we “dumb down” the experience. Rather, it’s about opening up
“access.” When operas first instituted subtitles (字幕) during shows, he said, many purists
didn’t like the idea, believing that the audience should instead study the works before
attending. But now it’s commonplace to find titles on the seatback in front of you—
choose a language, sit back, and understand what’s going on.
I) Allison Vulgamore, president of the Philadelphia Orchestra, is certainly looking to the
future. She says certain “classics concerts” dedicated to the old masters will always exist,
but not every program has to feature Beethoven and Brahms—or even a stage and seats.
“We’re trying to introduce different kinds of concerts in different ways,” she said. “We
are an interactive society now, where people like to learn.”
J) As the Philadelphia Orchestra rebounds from its financial straits, it is also aiming to
experiment, without alienating the loyalists. Vulgamore pointed to Cirque de la
Symphonie, a recent offering in which jugglers (玩杂耍的人) and acrobats (杂技演员)
interacted with musicians. An upcoming collaboration with New York City’s Ridge
 Theatre, meanwhile, will feature a “suspended dance installation” and other theatrical
elements occurring in conjunction with an orchestral piece.
K) The orchestra also continues to offer $25 annual memberships to Philadelphia students,
who can buy rush tickets to every concert on the schedule. “Students line up for the
concerts they want, and we get roughly 300 or 350 kids a night coming to these. They take
any of the open seats available, 5 minutes before the concert starts,” Vulgamore said. “It’s
like the running of the bulls, that energy when the doors open.”
L) Greenberg thinks that youthful energy needs to be harvested. Conductors don’t have to be
arrogant and untouchable—they can be accessible. Perhaps there could even be a “bit of
humor” about them, he suggested, and an abandoning of pretension within the high-art
institutions themselves. “On one hand, these organizations are all saying the same thing:
we want more general audiences, to break down cultural barriers,” he said. “But then they
come up with some very snooty (目中无人的) thing that makes you crazy.”
M) John Terauds, a critic who has covered Toronto’s classical music scene extensively, also
wants to do away with the stuffiness. He suggested that the warmer an audience is, the
better the musicians themselves will respond. “But the producer or organizer has to let
everyone know it’s OK,” he said. “It’s OK to enjoy yourself.” At the Toronto Symphony
Orchestra, for example, conductor Peter Oundjian often stops between pieces, taking a
moment to talk about the composer or the music in a very amiable way. And some nights,
Terauds said, “at least a third” of the audience consists of students who have purchased
cheaper tickets. On these nights, the energy of the room drastically shifts. It becomes a
less intimidating place.
N) Back in February, Terauds wrote on his blog about how going to classical performances
can be intimidating. Certain people “think they have to dress up,” he wrote. “They think
they have to know something about the music before they go. And, I’m sure, sitting in a
seat, trembling in fear that this might be the wrong time to applaud, is also one of the
factors.”
O) Everyone in the classical world agrees on the need for increased “accessibility,” but
achieving it is often easier said than done. Nowadays, there are unknown, unorthodox
opera singers wowing (博得……的喝彩) viewers on TV programs like “America’s Got
Talent” and “The Voice”. What can higher institutions do with any of that? And if they
appeal to these outlets, do they risk compromising the integrity or the intelligence of the
music?
P) Vulgamore seems to understand this. She thinks an organization can have it both ways,
claiming the new while keeping the old. And as she reorganizes the Philadelphia
Orchestra, she will attempt to do just that. “The world’s most respected musicians brought
together as an orchestra will always exist,” she said. “But it’s essential that we be willing
to experiment and fail.”
36. It was not a rare occurrence that audiences behaved wildly while listening to classical
music.
37. Some high-art institutions don’t actually mean it when they say they want more general
audiences.
 38. The theatre was in chaos when an unconventional ballet was first put on stage in the
capital of France.
39. According to one critic, the audience’s warm response would encourage the musicians to
do a better job.
40. Many commenters argued for the audience enjoying classical music quietly.
41. What appears on the seatback screen makes it unnecessary for the audience to study the
works beforehand.
42. It is generally accepted that there should be no disturbance from the audience during
classical music performance.
43. Higher institutions will be concerned about compromising the integrity of classical music
if they have to resort to the television medium.
44. Heavily discounted rush tickets help attract many young students to attend classical
concerts.
45. The formalities of high-art theatres can intimidate some people attending a performance.
Section C
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions
or unfinished statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D).
You should decide on the best choice and mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2
with a single line through the centre.
Passage One
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage.
How can one person enjoy good health, while another person looks old before her time?
Humans have been asking this question for thousands of years, and recently, it’s becoming
clearer and clearer to scientists that the differences between people’s rates of aging lie in the
complex interactions among genes, social relationships, environments and lifestyles. Even
though you were born with a particular set of genes, the way you live can influence how they
express themselves. Some lifestyle factors may even turn genes on or shut them off.
Deep within the genetic heart of all our cells are telomeres, or repeating segments of
noncoding DNA that live at the ends of the chromosomes (染色体). They form caps at the
ends of the chromosomes and keep the genetic material together. Shortening with each cell
division, they help determine how fast a cell ages. When they become too short, the cell stops
dividing altogether. This isn’t the only reason a cell can age—there are other stresses on cells
we don’t yet understand very well—but short telomeres are one of the major reasons human
cells grow old. We’ve devoted most of our careers to studying telomeres, and one
extraordinary discovery from our labs is that telomeres can actually lengthen.
Scientists have learned that several thought patterns appear to be unhealthy for telomeres,
and one of them is cynical hostility. Cynical hostility is defined by high anger and frequent
thoughts that other people cannot be trusted. Someone with hostility doesn’t just think, “I hate
to stand in long lines”; they think, “Others deliberately sped up and beat me to my rightful
position in the line!”—and then get violently agitated. People who score high on measures of
cynical hostility tend to get more heart disease, metabolic disease and often die at younger
ages. They also have shorter telomeres. In a study of British civil servants, men who scored
 high on measures of cynical hostility had shorter telomeres than men whose hostility scores
were low. The most hostile men were 30% more likely to have short telomeres.
What this means: aging is a dynamic process that could possibly be accelerated or
slowed—and, in some aspects, even reversed. To an extent, it has surprised us and the rest of
the scientific community that telomeres do not simply carry out the commands issued by your
genetic code. Your telomeres are listening to you. The foods you eat, your response to
challenges, the amount of exercise you get, and many other factors appear to influence your
telomeres and can prevent premature aging at the cellular level. One of the keys to enjoying
good health is simply doing your part to foster healthy cell renewal.
46. What have scientists come to know better today?
A) Why people age at different rates.
B) How genes influence the aging process.
C) How various genes express themselves in aging.
D) Why people have long been concerned about aging.
47. Why are some lifestyle factors considered extremely important?
A) They may shorten the process of cell division.
B) They may determine how genes function.
C) They may affect the lifespan of telomeres.
D) They may account for the stresses on cells.
48. What have the author and his colleagues discovered about telomeres?
A) Their number affects the growth of cells.
B) Their length determines the quality of life.
C) Their shortening process can be reversed.
D) Their health impacts the division of cells.
49. What have scientists learned about cynical hostility?
A) It may lead to confrontational thought patterns.
B) It may produce an adverse effect on telomeres.
C) It may cause people to lose their temper frequently.
D) It may stir up agitation among those in long lines.
50. What do we learn from the last paragraph about the process of aging?
A) It may vary from individual to individual.
B) It challenges scientists to explore further.
C) It depends on one’s genetic code.
D) It may be controlled to a degree.
Passage Two
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage.
Scientists have created by accident an enzyme ( 酶) that breaks down plastic drinks
bottles. The breakthrough could help solve the global plastic pollution crisis by enabling for
the first time the full recycling of bottles.
 The new research was spurred by the discovery in 2016 of the first bacterium that had
naturally evolved to eat plastic at a waste dump in Japan. Scientists have now revealed the
detailed structure of the crucial enzyme produced by the bug.
An international team then adjusted the enzyme to see how it had evolved, but tests
showed they had accidentally made the molecule even better at breaking down the plastic
used for drinks bottles. “What actually turned out was we improved the enzyme, which was a
bit of a shock,” said head researcher Prof. McGeehan, at the University of Portsmouth, UK.
Currently, the enzyme takes a few days to start breaking down the plastic, far faster than
the centuries it takes in the oceans, but the researchers are optimistic this can be speeded up
even further and become a viable large-scale process.
“What we are hoping to do is use this enzyme to turn this plastic back into its original
components, so we can literally recycle it back to plastic,” said McGeehan. “It means we
won’t need to dig up any more oil and, fundamentally, it should reduce the amount of plastic
in the environment.”
About 1 million plastic bottles are sold each minute around the globe and, with just 14%
recycled, many end up in the oceans where they have polluted even the remotest parts,
harming marine life and potentially people who eat sea food. “Plastic is incredibly resistant to
degradation,” said McGeehan. “It is one of these wonder materials that has been made a little
bit too well.”
Currently those bottles that are recycled can only be turned into opaque fibres for
clothing or carpets, while the new enzyme indicates a way to recycle old clear plastic bottles
back into new clear plastic bottle.
“You are always up against the fact that oil is cheap, so plastic is cheap,” said McGeehan.
“It is so easy for manufacturers to generate more of that stuff, rather than even try to recycle,
but I believe there is a public interest here: perception is changing so much that companies are
starting to look at how they can properly recycle these bottles.”
Prof. Adisa Azapagic, at the University of Manchester in the UK, agreed the enzyme could be
useful but added: “A full life-cycle assessment would be needed to ensure that the technology
does not solve one environmental problem—waste—at the expense of others, including
additional greenhouse gas emissions.”
51. What do we learn from the passage about an enzyme scientists have created?
A) It was identified during a lab experiment accident.
B) It may make full recycling of plastic bottles a reality.
C) It was a breakthrough made with persistent efforts.
D) It may initiate a radical reform in plastic industry.
52. What does the passage say about the bug that produces the important enzyme?
A) It has a natural ability to consume plastics.
B) It is a bacterium that reproduces at a high rate.
C) It is essential to the recycling of plastic bottles.
D) It has a chemical structure unknown to scientists.
53. By adjusting the enzyme produced by the bug, the scientists ______.
A) made it more effective by chance
B) discovered an extraordinary chemical
 C) altered its basic molecular composition
D) found its evolutionary process sped up
54. What does Prof. McGeehan say about the recycling of plastic bottles?
A) Manufacturers are implementing it on an increasingly larger scale.
B) It generates huge business opportunities for plastic manufacturers.
C) It has aroused persistent interest among the general public.
D) Manufacturers are beginning to explore ways of doing it.
55. What is Prof. Adisa Azapagic’s advice concerning the application of the enzyme?
A) Developing technologies to address greenhouse gas emissions.
B) Considering the extra cost involved in producing the enzyme.
C) Assessing its possible negative impact on the environment.
D) Studying the full life cycle of the enzyme as the first step.
Part IV
Translation
(30 minutes)
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese
into English. You should write your answer on Answer Sheet 2.
黄土高原（the Loess Plateau）是中国第三大高原，面积约60 万平方公里，平均海拔
1000-2000 米，绝大部分覆盖着50-80 米厚的黄土，是世界上黄土分布最集中、覆盖厚度
最大的区域。这是大自然创造的一个奇迹，在世界上也是绝无仅有的。
黄土高原是中华民族的发祥地之一。早在5500 年前，人们就已经在黄土高原上开始
农耕。
随着农耕业的持续发展，黄土高原人口不断增加，
在秦汉时期就成为中国的政治和经
济中心。如今，随着西部大开发战略的实施，黄土高原地区的经济得到了迅速发展。
