 
 
 
 
 
 
2023年
3月大学英语六级真题（第一套）
 
Part I
         Writing                                   (30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the sentence “People are
now increasingly aware of the danger of ‘appearance anxiety’ or being obsessed with one’s looks.” You can
make comments, cite examples or use your personal experiences to develop your essay. You should write at least
150 words but no more than 200 words. 
→此处留白与真实答题卡一致，共26行
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
Part II                          Listening Comprehension
            (30 minutes) 
Section A 
Directions: In this section, you will hear two long conversations. At the end of each conversation, you will hear four
questions. Both the conversation and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must
choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on 
Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre. 
Questions 1 to 4 are based on the conversation you have just heard. 
1. A) In a restaurant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) In a food store. 
B) In a kitchen.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D) In a supermarket.  
2. A) She eats meat occasionally.  
 
 
 
 
C) She is allergic to seafood. 
B) She enjoys cheeseburgers.   
 
 
 
 
D) She is a partial vegetarian.  
3. A) Dealing with one’s colleagues. 
 
 
 
 
C) Following the same diet for years. 
B) Changing one’s eating habit.  
 
 
 
 
D) Keeping awake at morning meetings.  
4. A) They enjoy perfect health. 
 
 
 
 
 
C) They only eat organic food. 
B) They are both animal lovers.  
 
 
 
 
D) They are cutting back on coffee. 
Questions 5 to 8 are based on the conversation you have just heard. 
5. A) The man got a poor evaluation from his colleagues. 
C) The man paid attention to trivial things. 
B) The man made little contribution to the company.  
D) The man had an attitude problem. 
6. A) They make unhelpful decisions for solving problems.  
B) They favor some employees’ suggestions over others’.  
C) They use manipulative language to mask their irrational choices.  
D) They reject employees’ reasonable arguments for work efficiency.  
7. A) It is a must for rational judgment.  
 
 
 
C) It is a good quality in the workplace. 
B) It is more of a sin than a virtue. 
 
 
 
 
D) It is more important now than ever.  
8. A) Smoothing relationships in the workplace.  
 
C) Focusing on employees’ carcer growth. 
B) Making rational and productive decisions.   
 
D) Preserving their power and prestige. 
Section B 
Directions: In this section, you will hear two passages. At the end of each passage, you will hear three or four
questions. Both the passage and the questions will be spoken only once. After you hear a question, you must
choose the best answer from the four choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on
Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through the centre. 
Questions 9 to 11 are based on the passage you have just heard.  
9. A) They show genius which defies description.  
 
C) They create very high commercial value. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
B) They accomplish feats many of us cannot. 
 
 
D) They bring great honor to their country. 
10. A) They take part in kids’ extra-curricular activities. 
C) They try to be positive role models to children. 
B) They work in spare time to teach children sports. 
D) They serve as spokespersons for luxury goods. 
11. A) Separating an athlete’s professional life from their personal life.  
B) Preventing certain athletes from getting in trouble with the law. 
C) Keeping athletes away from drug or alcohol problems. 
D) Being super sports stars without appearing arrogant. 
Questions 12 to 15 are based on the passage you have just heard. 
12. A) They always cost more than expected. 
 
 
C) They should be paid up by the attendees. 
B) They are joyous and exciting occasions. 
 
 
D) They are dreams coming true to the brides. 
13. A) It cost $60,000. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) It had eight guests only. 
B) It was cancelled.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
D) It was held in Las Vegas. 
14. A) Postpone her wedding. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) Keep to her budget. 
B) Ask her friends for help. 
 
 
 
 
 
D) Invite more guests. 
15. A) She called it romantic.  
 
 
 
 
 
C) She said she would think about it. 
B) She welcomed it with open arms. 
 
 
 
D) She rejected it flatly. 
Section C 
Directions: In this section, you will hear three recordings of lectures or talks followed by three or four questions.
The recordings will be played only once. After you hear a question, you must choose the best answer from the four
choices marked A), B), C) and D). Then mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 1 with a single line through
the centre. 
Questions 16 to 18 are based on the recording you have just heard. 
16. A) It determines people’s moods. 
 
 
 
 
C) It is closely related to people’s emotions. 
B) It can impact people’s wellbeing.  
 
 
 
D) It can influence people’s personalities. 
17. A) They make people more reproductive. 
 
 
C) They tend to produce positive feelings. 
B) They increase people’s life expectancy. 
 
 
D) They may alter people’s genes gradually. 
18. A) The link between temperature and personality is fairly weak.  
B) People share many personality traits despite their nationalities.  
C) People in the same geographical area may differ in personality.  
D) The Americans are apparently more outgoing than the Chinese.  
Questions 19 to 21 are based on the recording you have just heard. 
19. A) The number of older Americans living alone is on the rise.  
B) Chronic loneliness does harm to senior citizens in particular.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
C) Correlations have been found between loneliness and ill health.  
D) A growing number of US seniors face the risk of early mortality. 
20. A) Medication is available for treating loneliness.  
 
C) Being busy helps fight loneliness. 
B) Loneliness rarely results from living alone.  
 
 
D) Loneliness is probably reversible. 
21. A) Living with one’s children.  
 
 
 
 
 
C) Meaningful social contact. 
B) Meeting social expectations. 
 
 
 
 
 
D) Timely medical intervention. 
Questions 22 to 25 are based on the recording you have just heard. 
22. A) She had a successful career in finance. 
 
 
 
C) She made regular trips to Asian countries. 
B) She wrote stories about women travelers.  
 
 
D) She invested in several private companies. 
23. A) Buy a ranch.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C) Travel round the world. 
B) Start a blog.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D) Set up a travel agency. 
24. A) Work hard to attract attention from publishers.  
 
C) Try to find a full-time job in the travel business. 
B) Gain support from travel advertising companies. 
 
D) Create something unique to enter the industry. 
25. A) Attracting sufficient investment.  
 
 
 
 
C) Avoiding too much advertising early on. 
B) Creating an exotic corporate culture.  
 
 
 
D) Refraining from promoting similar products. 
Part III                        Reading Comprehension
    (40 minutes) 
Section A 
Directions: In this section, there is a passage with ten blanks. You are required to select one word for each blank
from a list of choices given in a word bank following the passage. Read the passage through carefully before
making your choices. Each choice in the bank is identified by a letter. Please mark the corresponding letter for each
item on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. You may not use any of the words in the bank more
than once. 
Unthinkable as it may be, humanity, every last person, could someday be wiped from the face of the Earth.
We have learned to worry about asteroids (小行星
) and super volcanoes, but the more likely   26
, according to
Nick Bostrom, a professor of philosophy at Oxford, is that we humans will destroy ourselves. 
Professor Bostrom, who directs Oxford’s Future of Humanity Institute, has argued over the course of several
papers that human   27   risks are poorly understood and, worse still,   28   underestimated by society.
Some of these existential risks are fairly well known, especially the natural ones. But others are   29   or even
exotic. Most worrying to Bostrom is the subset of existential risks that   30   from human technology, a subset
that he expects to grow in number and potency over the next century. 
Despite his concerns about the risks   31   to humans by technological progress, Bostrom is no luddite (科技进步反对者
). In fact, he is a longtime   32   of transhumanism – the effort to improve the human condition,
  
 
 
 
 
 
and even human nature itself, through technological means. In the long run he sees technology as a bridge, a
bridge we humans must cross with great care, in order to reach new and better modes of being. In his work,
Bostrom uses the tools of philosophy and mathematics, in   33  , probability theory, to try and determine how
we as a   34   might achieve this safe passage. What follows is my conversation with Bostrom about some of
the most interesting and worrying existential risks that humanity might   35   in the decades and centuries to
come, and about what we can do to make sure we outlast them. 
A) variety 
B) species 
C) shrewdly 
D) severely 
E) scenario 
F) posed 
G) particular 
H) obscure 
I) extinction 
J) evaporation  
K) essential 
L) encounter 
M) emphasized 
N) arise  
O) advocate 
 
Section B 
 
Directions: In this section, you are going to read a passage with ten statements attached to it. Each statement
contains information given in one of the paragraphs. Identify the paragraph from which the information is derived.
You may choose a paragraph more than once. Each paragraph is marked with a letter. Answer the questions by
marking the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2. 
San Francisco Has Become One Huge Metaphor for Economic Inequality in America 
A) 
The fog still chills the morning air and the cable cars still climb halfway to the stars. Yet on the ground, the
Bay Area has changed greatly since Tony Bennett left his heart here. Silicon Valley and the tech industry have 
led the region into a period of unprecedented wealth and innovation. But existing political and land limits
have caused an alarming housing crisis and astronomical rise in social and economic difference. 
B) 
While the residents of most cities display pride and support for their home industries, drastic market
distortions in the San Francisco Bay Area have created a boiling resentment in the region towards the tech
industry. A vocal minority is even calling on officials to punish those who are benefitting from the economic
and housing boom. If this boom and its consequences are not resolved, a drastic increase in social and
economic difference may have a profound impact on the region for generations. A history and analysis of this
transformation may hold invaluable insights about the opportunities. Perils of tech cities are currently being
cultivated across the US, and indeed around the world. 
C) 
According to a recent study, San Francisco ranks first in California for economic difference. The average
income of the top 1% of households in the city averages $3.6 million. This is 44 times the average income of
those at the bottom, which stands at $81,094. The top 1% of the San Francisco peninsula’s share of total
income now extends to 30.8% of the region’s income. This was a dramatic jump from 1989, where it stood at
  
 
 
 
 
 
15.8%. 
D) 
The region’s economy has been fundamentally transformed by the technology industry springing from Silicon
Valley. Policies pushed by Mayor Ed Lee provided tax breaks for tech companies to set up shop along the
city’s long-neglected Mid-Market area. The city is now home to Twitter, Uber, Airbnb, Pinterest, Dropbox and
others. In short, the Bay Area has become a global magnet for those with specialized skills, which has in turn
helped fuel economic enthusiasm, and this economic growth has reduced unemployment to 3.4%, an
admirable feat. 
E) 
In spite of all that, the strength of recent job growth, combined with policies that have traditionally limited
housing development in the city and throughout the peninsula, did not help ease the affordability crisis. In
2015 alone, the Bay Area added 64,000 in jobs. In the same year, only 5,000 new homes were built. 
F) 
With the average house in the city costing over $1.25 million and average flat prices over $1.11 million, the
minimum qualifying income to purchase a house has increased to $254,000. Considering that the average 
household income in the city currently stands at around $80,000, it is not an exaggeration to say that the
dream of home ownership is now beyond the grasp of the vast majority of today’s people who rent. 
G) For generations, the stability and prosperity of the American middle class has been anchored by home
ownership. Studies have consistently shown that the value of land has overtaken overall income growth, thus
providing a huge advantage to property owners as a vehicle of wealth building. When home prices soar
above the reach of most households, the gap between the rich and the poor dramatically increases. 
H) If contributing factors leading to housing becoming less than affordable are not resolved over multiple
generations, a small elite control a vast share of the country’s total wealth. The result? A society where the
threat of class warfare would loom large. A society’s level of happiness is tied less to measures of quantitative
wealth and more to measures of qualitative wealth. This means that how a person judges their security in
comparison to their neighbors’ has more of an impact on their happiness than their objective standard of
living. At the same time, when a system no longer provides opportunities for the majority to participate in 
wealth building, it not only robs those who are excluded from opportunities, but also deprives them of their
dignity. 
I) 
San Francisco and the Bay Area have long been committed to values which embrace inclusion and rejection
of mainstream culture. To see these values coming apart so publicly adds insult to injury for a region once
defined by its progressive social fabric. In the face of resentment, it is human to want revenge. But
deteriorating policies such as heavily taxing technology companies or real estate developers are not likely to
shift the balance. 
J) 
The housing crisis is caused by two primary factors: the growing desirability of the Bay Area as a place to live
due to its excellent economy, and our limited housing stock. Although the city is experiencing an
unprecedented boom in new housing, more units are sorely needed. Protection policies were originally
designed to suppress bad development and boost historic preservation in our urban areas. Now too many
developers are experiencing excessive delays. Meanwhile, there are the land limitations of the Bay Area to
  
 
 
 
 
 
consider. The region is surrounded by water and mountains. Local governments need to aid development as
well. This means increasing housing density throughout the region and building upwards while streamlining
the approval process. 
K) 
Real estate alone will not solve the problem, of course. Transportation, too, needs to be updated and
infrastructure extended to link distant regions to Silicon Valley and the city. We need to build an effective 
high-speed commuting system linking the high-priced and crowed Bay Area with the low-priced and
low-density Central Valley. This would dramatically reduce travel times. And based on the operating speeds of 
hovering trains used in countries such as Japan or Spain, high-speed rail could shorten the time to travel
between San Francisco and California’s capitol, Sacramento, or from Stockton to San Jose, to under 30
minutes. This system would bring once distant regions within reasonable commute to heavy job centers. The
city also needs to update existing transportation routes combined with smart home-building policies that
dramatically increase housing density in areas surrounding high-speed rail stations. By doing so, we will be
able to build affordable housing within acceptable commuting distances for a significant bulk of the
workforce. 
L) 
Our threatening housing crisis forces the difficult question of what type of society we would like to be. Will it
be one where elites command the vast bulk of wealth and regional culture is defined by a aggressive business
world? We were recently treated to a taste of the latter, when local tech employee Justin Keller wrote an
open letter to the city complaining about having to see homeless people on his way to work. 
M) It doesn’t have to be this way. But solutions need to be implemented now, before angry crowds grow from a
nuisance to serious concern. It may take less than you might think. And in fact, the solutions to our housing
crisis are already fairly clear. We need to increase the density of housing units. We need to use existing
technology to shorten travel times and break the land limits. There is a way to solve complex social and
economic problems without abandoning social responsibility. This is the Bay Area’s opportunity to prove that
it can innovate more than just technology.  
36. The higher rate of employment, combined with limited housing supply, did not make it any easier to buy a
house. 
37. One way to deal with the housing crisis is for the government to simplify the approval procedures for housing
projects. 
38. Residents of the San Francisco Bay Area strongly resent the tech industry because of the economic inequality it
has contributed to. 
39. The fast rise in the prices of land and houses increases the economic inequality among people. 
40. San Francisco city government offered tax benefits to attract tech companies to establish operations in a less
developed area.  
41. Innovative solutions to social and economic problems should be introduced before it is too late. 
42. When people compare their own living standard with others’, it has a greater impact on their sense of
contentment. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
43. San Francisco has been found to have the biggest income gap in California between the rich and the poor. 
44. Improved transport networks connecting the city to distant outlying areas will also help solve the housing 
crisis. 
45. Average incomes in the Bay Area make it virtually impossible for most tenant families to buy a home. 
Section C 
Directions: There are 2 passages in this section. Each passage is followed by some questions or unfinished
statements. For each of them there are four choices marked A), B), C) and D). You should decide on the best choice
and mark the corresponding letter on Answer Sheet 2 with a single line through the centre. 
Passage One 
Questions 46 to 50 are based on the following passage. 
The suggestion that people should aim for dietary diversity by trying to eat a variety of foods has been a basic
public health recommendation for decades in the United States everywhere. Now, however, experts are warning
that aiming for a diverse diet may actually lead to just eating more calories, and, thus, to obesity. One issue is that
people may not interpret "variety" the way nutritionists intend. This problem is highlighted by new research
conducted by the American Heart Association. Researchers reviewed all the evidence published related to dietary
diversity and saw a correlation between dietary diversity and a greater intake of both healthy and unhealthy foods. 
This had implications for obesity, as researchers found a greater prevalence of obesity amongst people with a
greater dietary diversity. 
One author of the new study explained that their findings contradict standard dietary advice, as most dietary
guidelines around the world include a statement of eating a variety of foods. But this advice does not seem to be
supported by science, possibly because there is little agreement about the meaning of "dietary diversity," which is
not clearly and consistently defined. Some experts measure dietary diversity by counting the number of food
groups eaten, while others look at the distribution of calories across individual foods, and still others measure how
different foods eaten are from each other. 
Although the findings of this new study contradict standard dietary advice, they do not come as a surprise to
all of the researchers involved. Dr. Rao, one of the study authors, noted that after 20 years of experience in the
field of obesity, he has observed that people who have a regimented lifestyle and diet tend to be thinner and
healthier than people with a wide variety of consumption. This anecdotal evidence matches the conclusions of the 
study, which found no evidence that dietary diversity promotes healthy body weight or optimal eating patterns, 
and limited evidence shows that eating a variety of foods is actually associated with consuming more calories,
poor eating patterns and weight gain. Further, there is some evidence that a greater variety of food options in a
single meal may delay people’s feeling of fullness and actually increase how much they eat. 
Based on their findings, the researchers endorse a diet consisting of a limited number of healthy foods such
as vegetables, fruits, grains, and poultry. They also recommend that people simultaneously endeavor to restrict
consumption of sweets, sugar and red meat. The researchers stress, however, that their dietary recommendations
  
 
 
 
 
 
do not imply dietary diversity is never positive, and that, in the past, diversity in diets of whole, unprocessed food
may have actually been very beneficial. 
46. What has been a standard piece of dietary advice for decades? 
A) People should diversify what they eat.  
B) People should have a well-balanced diet. 
C) People should cultivate a healthy eating habit.  
D) People should limit calorie intake to avoid obesity. 
47. What did the new research by the American Heart Association find? 
A) Unhealthy food makes people gain weight more easily.  
B) Dietary diversity is positively related to good health.  
C) People seeking dietary diversity tend to eat more.  
D) Big eaters are more likely to become overweight. 
48. What could help to explain the contradiction between the new findings and the common public health
recommendation? 
A) There is little consensus on the definition of dietary diversity.  
B) The methods researchers use to measure nutrition vary greatly.  
C) Conventional wisdom about diet is seldom supported by science.  
D) Most dietary guidelines around the world contradict one another. 
49. What did Dr. Rao find after 20 years of research on obesity? 
A) There is no clear definition of optimal eating patterns.  
B) Diversified food intake may not contribute to health.  
C) Eating patterns and weight gain go hand in hand.  
D) Dietary diversity promotes healthy body weight. 
50. What does the passage say about people who eat a great variety of food? 
A) They are more likely to eat foods beneficial to their health.  
B) They don’t have any problems getting sufficient nutrition.  
C) They don’t feel they have had enough until they overeat.  
D) They tend to consume more sweets, sugar and red meat. 
Passage Two 
Questions 51 to 55 are based on the following passage. 
The ability to make inferences from same and different, once thought to be unique to humans, is viewed as a
cornerstone of abstract intelligent thought. A new study, however, has shown that what psychologists call
same-different discrimination is present in creatures generally seen as unintelligent: newborn ducklings (小鸭
). 
The study, published Thursday in Science, challenges our idea of what it means to have a birdbrain, said 
Edward Wasserman, an experimental psychologist at the University of Iowa who wrote an independent review of
  
 
 
 
 
 
the study. 
“In fact, birds are extremely intelligent and our problem pretty much lies in figuring out how to get them to
‘talk’ to us, or tell us how smart they really are,” he said. 
Antone Martinho and Alex Kacelnik, co-authors of the new paper, devised a clever experiment to better test
bird intelligence. 
First, they took 1-day-old ducklings and exposed them to a pair of moving objects. The two objects were
either the same or different in shape or color. Then they exposed each duckling to two entirely new pairs of
moving objects. 
The researchers found that about 70 percent of the ducklings preferred to move toward the pair of objects
that had the same shape or color relationship as the first objects they saw. A duckling that was first shown two
green spheres, in other words, was more likely to move toward a pair of blue spheres than a mismatched pair of
orange and purple spheres. 
Ducklings go through a rapid learning process called imprinting shortly after birth – it’s what allows them to
identify and follow their mothers. 
These findings suggest that ducklings use abstract relationships between sensory inputs like color, shape,
sounds and odor to recognize their mothers, said Dr. Kacelnik. 
By studying imprinting, the authors of this study have shown for the first time that an animal can learn
relationships between concepts without training, said Jeffrey Katz, an experimental psychologist at Auburn
University who was not involved in the study. 
Previous studies have suggested that other animals, including pigeons, dolphins, honeybees and some
primates (灵长类动物
), can discern same from different, but only after extensive training. 
Adding ducklings to the list – particularly untrained newborn ducklings – suggests that the ability to compare
abstract concepts “is far more necessary to a wider variety of animals’ survival than we previously thought,” Dr.
Martinho said. He believes the ability is so crucial because it helps animals consider context when identifying
objects in their environment. 
It’s clear from this study and others like it that “animals process and appreciate far more of the intricacies in
their world than we’ve ever understood,” Dr. Wasserman said. “We are in a revolutionary phase in terms of our
ability to understand the minds of other animals.” 
51. In what way were humans thought to be unique? 
A) Being capable of same-different discrimination. 
B) Being able to distinguish abstract from concrete. 
C) Being a major source of animal intelligence. 
D) Being the cornerstone of the creative world. 
52. What do we learn from the study published in Science? 
A) Our understanding of the bird world was biased. 
B) Our communication with birds was far from adequate. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
C) Our knowledge about bird psychology needs updating. 
D) Our conception of birds’ intelligence was wrong. 
53. What did the researchers discover about most ducklings from their experiment? 
A) They could associate shape with color. 
B) They could tell whether the objects were the same. 
C) They preferred colored objects to colorless ones. 
D) They reacted quickly to moving objects. 
54. What was novel about the experiment in the study reported in Science? 
A) The ducklings were compared with other animals.  
B) It was conducted by experimental psychologists.  
C) The animals used received no training. 
D) lt used a number of colors and shapes. 
55. What do we learn from Dr. Wasserman’s comment on the study of animal minds at the end of the passage? 
A) Research methods are being updated. 
B) lt is getting more and more intricate. 
C) lt is attracting more public attention. 
D) Remarkable progress is being made. 
Part IV
  Translation                                 (30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You should
write your answer on Answer Sheet 2. 张骞（Zhang Qian）是中国第一个伟大的探险家。他不畏艰险，克服重重困难，两次出使西域，开通了中国同西亚和欧洲的通商关系，将中国的丝和丝织品运往西亚和欧洲，开拓了历史上著名的“丝绸之路”。同时，他又将西域的风土人情、地理文化以及特有物种等介绍到中原，极大地开阔了人们的视野。正如历史学家所指出的那样，如果没有张骞出使西域，就不可能有丝绸之路的开辟，也就不会有汉朝同西域或欧洲的文化交流。→ 此处留白与真实答题卡一致，共22行
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
2023年
3月大学英语六级真题（第二套）
 
Part I
    Writing                                     (30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the sentence “People are
now increasingly aware of the ‘digital gap’ or challenges the elderly face in a digital world.” You can make
comments, cite examples or use your personal experiences to develop your essay. You should write at least 150 
words but no more than 200 words. 
→此处留白与真实答题卡一致，共26行
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
Part II
    Listening Comprehension                     (30 minutes) 说明：多数学生反馈本次考试只有一套听力试题，第二套为重复题目，只是选项顺序不同，故不再重复。
Part III
      Reading Comprehension
             (40 minutes) 说明：多数学生反馈本次考试只有一套阅读试题，第二套为重复题目，只是选项顺序不同，故不再重复。
Part IV
        Translation
  (30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You should
write your answer on Answer Sheet 2. 徐霞客是中国明代的著名地理学家，他花费了三十多年的时间游遍了大半个中国。他主要靠徒步跋涉，寻访了许多荒远偏僻的地区。他把自己的见闻和考察结果详编记录下来，为后人留下了珍贵的考察资料。他通过对许多河流的实地调查，纠正了文献中关于水源的错误。他还详细地描述了地形、气候等因素对植物的影响，生动地描绘了各地的名胜古迹和风土人情。他的考察记录由后人整理成了《徐霞客游记》，在国内外产生了广泛的影响。→ 此处留白与真实答题卡一致，共22行
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
 
2023年
3月大学英语六级真题（第三套）
 
Part I
          Writing                                  (30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to write an essay that begins with the sentence “People are 
now increasingly aware of the challenges in making a decision when faced with too many choices.” You can
make comments, cite examples or use your personal experiences to develop your essay. You should write at least
150 words but no more than 200 words. 
→此处留白与真实答题卡一致，共26行
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
Part II
      Listening Comprehension
        (30 minutes) 说明：多数学生反馈本次考试只有一套听力试题，第三套为重复题目，只是选项顺序不同，故不再重复。
Part III
        Reading Comprehension
              (40 minutes) 说明：多数学生反馈本次考试只有一套阅读试题，第三套为重复题目，只是选项顺序不同，故不再重复。
Part IV
      Translation                                    (30 minutes) 
Directions: For this part, you are allowed 30 minutes to translate a passage from Chinese into English. You should
write your answer on Answer Sheet 2. 郑和是中国历史上最杰出的航海家，在航海、外交、军事等诸多领域都表现出非凡的智慧和卓越的才能。他曾七次率领庞大的船队远航，访问了西太平洋和印度洋的许多国家和地区，加深了中国同东南亚、东非的相互了解。郑和下西洋对中外的经济和文化交流起到了十分积极的推进作用，也为维护区域和平做出了巨大贡献。为了永远铭记郑和及其丰功伟绩，7月11日，即郑和首次率船队远航启程的日子，被定为中国的航海节。→ 此处留白与真实答题卡一致，共22行
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
                                                                                              
 
